# TAG Calls week-of 30 August 2021

## Call Agendas

This agenda can be viewed and updated on [Github](https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2021/telcons/08-30-agenda.md).

If you would like to add an item to the agenda or volunteer to scribe please open a pull request against this agenda.

### Breakout A (Europe / US) - [2021-08-30](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20210830T160000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=248&p7=240)

* [Early design review of light-DOM CSS Scope proposal](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/593) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @kenchris
* [Early design review of the **updated** Multi-Screen Window Placement API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/602) - @kenchris, @atanassov
* [Managed Device Web API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/606) - @cynthia, @kenchris <- **close?**
* [Early Design Review: Speculation Rules](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/611) - @hober, @rhiaro, @atanassov
* [CSS: contain-intrinsic-size: auto, and converting to a shorthand property](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/624) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @plinss, @atanassov
* [CanvasRenderingContext2D API Improvements](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/627) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @atanassov
* [User Preference Media Features Client Hints Headers](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/632) - @torgo, @atanassov
* [HTMLMediaElement controlsList](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/643) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @atanassov
* [Note Taking: New Note URL field](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/648) - @kenchris, @hadleybeeman, @atanassov

### Breakout B (US / APAC) - [2021-08-31](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20210831T000000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=248&p7=240)

* [CSS overflow: clip and overflow-clip-margin](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/579) - @hober, @atanassov
* [Handwriting Recognition API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/591) - @cynthia, @atanassov
* [Early design review of modal close signals/ModalCloseWatcher](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/594) - @hober, @plinss
* [WebGPU and WGSL](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/626) - @hober, @cynthia
* [Anonymous iframes](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/639) - @hober, @hadleybeeman, @atanassov
* [scheduler.postTask()](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/647) - @hober, @cynthia
* [MediaStream Image Capture (wide review)](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/651) - @plinss, @atanassov
* [Capability Delegation](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/655) - @atanassov
* [Back/Forward Cache](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/628) - @hober
  * merge? [Add non-"fully active" document handling guide w3ctag/design-principles#317](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/pull/317) 
  * merge? [Add non-"fully active" document question w3ctag/security-questionnaire#128](https://github.com/w3ctag/security-questionnaire/pull/128)

### Breakout C (APAC / Europe) - [2021-08-31](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20210831T080000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=248&p7=240)

* [WebCodecs (again!)](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/612) - @cynthia, @kenchris
* [ModuleServiceWorker](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/617) - @kenchris, @plinss
* [Compute Pressure API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/621) - @LeaVerou, @kenchris
* [API for display-capturing the current tab](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/625) - @cynthia, @LeaVerou
* [JPEG XL decoding](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/633) - @cynthia
* [Resource Timing](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/641) - @cynthia, @kenchris
* [User Timing ](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/642) - @cynthia, @kenchris
* [Early design review of light-DOM CSS Scope proposal](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/593) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @kenchris
* [scheduler.postTask()](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/647) - @hober, @cynthia

### Plenary Session - [2021-09-01](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20210901T150000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=248&p7=240)

* [EyeDropper API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/587) - @cynthia, @LeaVerou, @kenchris
* [Pickling for Async Clipboard API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/636) - @cynthia, @torgo <- **close?**
* [Shared Element Transitions - Early Review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/631) - @cynthia, @LeaVerou, @plinss <- **close?**
* [User-Agent Client Hints & UA Reduction](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/640) - @hober, @torgo <- special session suggested, @torgo to schedule
* [COOP same-origin-allow-popups-plus-coep](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/649) - @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman <- **close?**
* Design Principles re-publish to TR
* Breakout Rollup
* Issue Triage


## Call Minutes


### Breakout A (Europe / US) - [2021-08-30](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20210830T160000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=248&p7=240)

Present: Dan, Amy, Peter, Tess, Rossen, Yves

Regrets: Lea, Kenneth

#### [Early design review of light-DOM CSS Scope proposal](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/593) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @kenchris

Dan: I think we need Lea

Rossen: is it urgent?

Dan: yes, it's already marked as proposed closing but also pending external feedback

Rossen: seems like it ended on a wedge back in may. Since then if I was them I'd be thinking we were okay with it.

Dan: we should make it clear. Looks like there's a Pr which was added in CSS land on the basis of our feedback in March and we should be feeding back that it looks fine. We need that feedback from Ken and Lea, who left the feedback.

Rossen: sure. Anything remaining there that we need to work out? Probably safe to move forward to closing.  Let Lea land the closing comment.

#### [Early design review of the **updated** Multi-Screen Window Placement API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/602) - @kenchris, @atanassov

Dan: I think this is ready for closure based on the feedback we got on the 10th, unless there's additional feedback we want to give. I did put the multi stakeholder thing in here. We could say it remains an issue/question.

Rossen: added some docs to issues around naming and use cases... there's quite a bit of content...  looks like the issue they link to - https://github.com/webscreens/window-placement/issues/50 trying to figure out if they're ok with our proposed renaming. The current name is `window.getscreens.screens`... we flagged. I don't see that they are ready to change it....

Peter: new explainer says `getscreens` is directly on window.

Dan: have they taken our feedback on board and are debating it, or have not really understood our feedback?

Peter's cat: MAAAAW

Rossen: it seems like they are sympathetic to the proposal. 

Dan: could be an argument for closing

Rossen: let me touch base with Ken first. I remember a long discussion about this one with Peter and we went through all of the apis

Dan: plenary, proposed closed

#### [Managed Device Web API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/606) - @cynthia, @kenchris <- **close?**

Amy: as i see it there's no reason for a web API here.  Nothing that can't be done with existing device administrator tools. The user agent doesn't need to get involved.

Dan: we can be stronger than saying we can't endorse it being added to the web. We could say standardising this could be harmful to web users. We should definitely say it doesn't belong in the web platform or in standardisation. Fine if they want to build it into Chrome as a special thing.

> Thanks for the update. We discussed this again in our meetings this week.
>
> > NOTE: [RFC7258] treats pervasive monitoring as an attack, but it doesn’t apply to managed devices.
>
> We don't think this is adequate. Given the power dynamics at play in an employer-employee relationship, the UA should still be working in the best interests of the end-user (the employee) even if the device being used is managed by an administrator. That is to say, pervasive monitoring is never a feature. Especially given this in the spec:
>
> > [device administrators] may not necessarily have the device user’s best interests
>
> Further, we haven't seen an indication of implementation support from browsers other than Chrome.
>
> As all of the attributes besides serial number are set by the administrator or some internal company system, we have yet to be convinced that the use cases can't be met by the device administrator keeping their own database of these attributes. They already know the serial numbers of the devices they issue to uniquely identify them. Also, the administrator explicitly decides which sites have access to the data. So why is the UA on the managed devices needed to communicate this data to sites? The administrator can do this directly.
>
> We can't endorse adding this as a general mechanism to the Web platform.

Dan: +1 the comment

Tess: works for me

Peter: +1

Rossen: fine to change Is to Wes

Dan: proposed closed for plenary?

#### [Early Design Review: Speculation Rules](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/611) - @hober, @rhiaro, @atanassov

> Thanks @jeremyroman and @domfarolino for your helpful responses to my questions.
>
> We can see you've thought about various privacy and security implications, but the spec so far doesn't have Privacy or Security Considerations sections, so don't forget to add those.
>
> We're still a little concerned about complexity for authors given the overlap with Resource Hints. We noticed that your ultimate target for this spec is WHATWG, but Resource Hints is going through the Web Performance WG. If you haven't already, it would be worth syncing with them and perhaps considering that as a venue for this work in future.
>
> Besides that, as this was an early review, we are content to close this and wish you luck with the continued incubation of this spec in WICG. We look forward to reviewing again at a later stage.

Amy: it's basically fine but there are some issues before we close it. One thing - relationship with resource hints - that this spec is a superset of that. Which strikes me as odd. They put future venue as whatwg - I put in the comment that they should sync with web performance wg and consider that as a venue.  Other thing I thought about - somethings about the prerender it's gonna need. Changes to javascript - for analytics- will need to know if it's a pre-render. They've said 'so the browser can use heuristics' but no detail on heuristics. Implementation detail - might not reveal to the user what heuristics are. 

Dan: Privacy issue?

Amy: they have good answers on to the privacy & security questionnaire on that.

Dan: so maybe we can close?

Dan: if it's a superset then why do we need the thing that's supsersetted?  Feels like there should definitely be some discussion with web perf wg.

Amy: initially asked why they can't extend Resource Hints, and they said the way that works makes it difficult to extend because of link headers and stuff

Dan: suggest you paste your comment, mark as proposed close and close at the plenary.

#### [CSS: contain-intrinsic-size: auto, and converting to a shorthand property](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/624) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @plinss, @atanassov

Dan: marked as proposed closing. On 24th May they said they're proposing a change, if agreed the scope of the issue will be much lower. Sounds like a change in scope and this issue is no longer relevant?
 
Rossen: I think we already discussed it and resolved.  Based on our discussion end of May in CSS wg - we've resolved common visibility auto - that was one of the feedbacks that started this conversation...  I don't see what else here is needed to continue to talk about. 

Dan: we can close this?

Rossen: yeah.  User benefit will be pretty great. Reduces need for javascript tricks people were using.  This suite of capabilities is coming along pretty nicely. This is just a small addition to overall capabilities. we should not hold back on it.

Dan: We will close at the plenary. 

#### [CanvasRenderingContext2D API Improvements](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/627) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @atanassov

Dan: Maybe ready to close? There are multiple PRs based on our feedback some merged...

Rossen: think Lea's feedback was on colorvalue and text modifiers - i think we already squared this.  we have a path forward to define the color object so it's something that carries through the entire platforms.  I think the spec can only benefit...

Rossen: I think this one is ready for closing. 

Dan: mark proposed close and close at plenary.

#### [User Preference Media Features Client Hints Headers](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/632) - @torgo, @atanassov

Rossen: it's shipped

Dan: it says early review

Rossen: shipped in chrome 93, they have pinged webkit and mozilla for input but I don't see anything more

Dan: close it?

Rossen: not much else we can add here. Everything that needed to be expressed was done. I can write a **closing comment** and close it. Still no position from Mozilla or feedback from webkit. Tess, do you remember what you think about client hints? Especially the media feature client hints?

Tess: there have been a lot of discussions.. I do'nt know specifically

Rossen: this one is exposing all of the CSS media features as client hints

Tess: quite unlikely there would be enthusiastic support from us

Dan: mozilla is not saying anything. Given lack of implementer support, what's the venue intended to be? Where does this go? Right now it's in WICG.. Where does it go next?

Rossen: not much going on in repo since they moved it to WICG

Dan: let's close it.  But what result.  

Rossen: no multi-stakeholder.  despite the fact that it's shipped it's supposed to be an early review. I'm glad they reviewed this with their security team. Satisfied with concerns?

Dan: yeah

Peter: the whole client hints thing seems contentious and up in the air

Dan: we have previously reviwed client hints positively

Rossen: way back when, then we reopened it

Peter: my fundamental problem with this is it's built on top of a feature which doens't have cross vendor buy in and still contentious and isn't really on a rec track anywhere. This is a google feature, which is fine, but not a standard.

Rossen: so close as unsatisfied?

Dan: ambivalent because we don't see it's harmful however it's got these signifcant issues with stakeholder support

Peter: it's not on track to be a w3c standard. I think we need a different status, not sure ambivalent captures it. More like.. out of scope. I don't want to give the TAG's blessing that this is a standard.

Rossen: good to capture that in the closing comment

Peter: my concern is not to signal TAG approval for something that isn't really participating in REC track standards

#### [HTMLMediaElement controlsList](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/643) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @atanassov



#### [Note Taking: New Note URL field](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/648) - @kenchris, @hadleybeeman, @atanassov

#### Meta: review labels

Dan: we should document what the review labels mean

Peter: topic for the face to face


### Breakout B (US / APAC) - [2021-08-31](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20210831T000000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=248&p7=240)

Present: Peter, Sangwhan, Rossen, 

Regrets:


#### [CSS overflow: clip and overflow-clip-margin](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/579) - @hober, @atanassov

Peter: One of my problems with this feature is that we're adding yet another clipping mechanism to the existing `clip` property. 

Rossen: Current spec defines `overflow:clip` as a strict superset of `clip`. It also allows better integration with non-scrollable content. In the ideal case that property will overtake `clip` entirely and we can deprecate it.

Peter: Yes and then again, `clip` exists today despite its (lack of) usefulness. It seems weird to have both a clip property and a seperate overflow-clip-margin. What if `overflow: clip` opts in to using the `clip` property to define the box? Alternatively, if this is meant to fully replace `clip`, then that should be stated.

Rossen: So how can we resolve this from TAG POV?

Peter: The behavior makes sense but the resolutoin is certainly not satisfying. It almost feels we need another resolution type to ask for a feature to go back for additional design considerations.

... Let's discuss more at the plenary with the rest of the group.

#### [Handwriting Recognition API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/591) - @cynthia, @atanassov

#### [Early design review of modal close signals/ModalCloseWatcher](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/594) - @hober, @plinss

Punt to plenary to get Tess' feedback

#### [WebGPU and WGSL](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/626) - @hober, @cynthia

#### [Back/Forward Cache](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/628) - @hober
  * merge? [Add non-"fully active" document handling guide w3ctag/design-principles#317](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/pull/317) 
  * merge? [Add non-"fully active" document question w3ctag/security-questionnaire#128](https://github.com/w3ctag/security-questionnaire/pull/128)

#### [Anonymous iframes](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/639) - @hober, @hadleybeeman, @atanassov

#### [scheduler.postTask()](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/647) - @hober, @cynthia

#### [MediaStream Image Capture (wide review)](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/651) - @plinss, @atanassov

#### [Capability Delegation](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/655) - @atanassov


### Breakout C (APAC / Europe) - [2021-08-31](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20210831T080000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=248&p7=240)

Present: Dan, Sangwhan, Ken, Lea, Yves, Amy

Regrets: 

#### [WebCodecs (again!)](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/612) - @cynthia, @kenchris

Sangwhan: there's a debate.  Window or worker?  

Ken: shouldn't it be both places?

Sangwhan: yes We agreed window or worker global scope. ... but Tess disagrees.   2 implementers disagree it should be excposed to window.  one strongly disagrees.

Ken: we benchmarked (in intel) - a lot of overhead.

Sangwhan: a lot of cases where it makes sense running on the window...

Sangwhan: some argued what about single-cores...   I think this should be on window or worker global scope.

Dan: if we can't get consensus we need to move on. I suggest we say these are the opinions, take it to plenary that we want to close it, we can leave a message saying we haven't had consensus

**status: we have a tentative consensus view

- to validate at plenary.**

#### [ModuleServiceWorker](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/617) - @kenchris, @plinss

Dan: we didn't have time for this at our last face to face, it went into the abyss

Ken: we were fine with this right? Makes all the sense. Instead of the weird import script thing, now it's just a regular module. Makes sense to me, no concerns. Safari implemented it, and now they're implementing in Chrome

Dan: there's argument about the explainer, have they resolved this?

Ken: no they haven't. We could close unsatisfied because of that

Dan: I feel like we should do that. [leaves comment]

Ken: closing satisfied with concerns

#### [Compute Pressure API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/621) - @LeaVerou, @kenchris

Lea: still waiting for a response

Ken: a lot of this is still up in the air. The main driver behind it from google is on a sabbatical until the end of september. I'd say punt this. a lot of discussion behind the scenes. Postponed, we gave a lot of feedback, waiting for them to come back and say what we do

Dan: close for no with a note saying we understand there are delays

Ken: I don't think it needs to be closed, can't we postpone it?

Lea: seems more reasonable to postpone it. Til October?

Dan: need a new status? Stalled?

Ken: stalled sounds negative

Lea: and passive agressive

Sangwhan: why not pending external feedback?

Lea: that seems the closest

Ken: just set a milestone for the future

Dan: [leaves comment]

#### [API for display-capturing the current tab](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/625) - @cynthia, @LeaVerou

#### [JPEG XL decoding](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/633) - 
@cynthia

Yves: I thought we decided a long time ago to close it

Sangwhan: we need a position on whether or not mime sniffing. So far we've been against mime sniffing. This is one case where some people in the wg pushed back and said they want mime sniffing for this case because it makes it convenient... disagreement with people in whatwg

Ken: the right people are discussing this so i don' tknow what we need to say

Yves: with orb work they want to limit things that are mime sniffed and go back to a stricter checking of media types in the future

Sangwhan: i've been following that guideance and suddenly the wg people disagreed and I'm not sure how to react. Technically it seems fine to go.

Yves: as the original issue was not really about that, we can send that comment saying mime sniffing in the ifrst case was not something we should rely on we are against adding new things to mime sniffing, but we give that to whatwg to decide. Then close the original issue which was about content encoding.

Sangwhan: I'm fine with that

Ken: me too

Sangwhan: there's a principles issue here, we do say something about mime sniffing

Dan: we should reference that in the comment

Sangwhan: we did, they asked what security implications

Dan: we should close saying we've provided feedback, they know what we've said in design principles, if there's an issue there they can raise it there if they think there needs to be more explanation

**Status: Yves to do closing comment.**

#### [Resource Timing](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/641) - @cynthia, @kenchris

Sangwhan: looks good to me, the only change is

Dan: if these are minor deltas and we can simply close them lets do that

Sangwhan: I think we can close this one

#### [User Timing ](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/642) - @cynthia, @kenchris

Sangwhan: they are minor deltas. Not much change in terms of normative text. Changes to steps in the algorithm. New notion of a structured deserialise algorithm.. I don't know enough to say if this is significant, I don't think it is

Ken: I guess Tess would be more versed in this? It's very complicated

Sangwhan: [leaves comment]

#### [Early design review of light-DOM CSS Scope proposal](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/593) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @kenchris <-- propose close

Lea: still pending external feedback. Looks like they're still iterating in CSS WG

Dan: Rossen said it would be okay to close. What further value are we adding?

Lea: if I remember right, last time we looked is our main feedback point is that this is two things in one. There is a different scoping mechanism that doesn't exist in css, and also a way to select elements. Our concern was that this might have been better as some sort of selector. I'm not sure if that has been addressed or explored.

Dan: lets take that to the plenary in that case

#### [CanvasRenderingContext2D API Improvements](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/627) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @atanassov <-- propose close

**taken to plenary**

#### [scheduler.postTask()](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/647) - @hober, @cynthia

Sangwhan: the use case makes sense...

Ken: completed origin trial in 93 and now available by default in chrome

Dan: looking at responses to security and privacy. The question about data features expose to an origin.. 

Sangwhan: this is the ugly thing... competing with cpu time for other things in the browser. You could pull it off in chromeos where the browser is the only thing that's running? 

Dan: they say information gained is likely to be benign but i'm not sure what information the're talking about

Sangwhan: CPU usage... imagine .. one listening to compute pressure and the other post burst tasks that run through loops in a specific pattern.. could mitigate in the implementation

Dan: we could feed back that they need to suggest mitigations

Sangwhan: it's a stretch. You could do this without this api

Ken: very highly unlikely and unrelable side channel

Dan: they actually have a mitigations section in the spec, and talk about what information might be gained. I think this is good. I think we should close it.

Sangwhan: [leaves closing comment]

### Plenary Session - [2021-09-01](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20210901T150000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=248&p7=240)

Present: Kenneth, Dan, Peter, Rossen, Yves, Lea, Hadley, Amy

Regrets: Sangwhan, Tess

#### [EyeDropper API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/587) - @cynthia, @LeaVerou, @kenchris

Lea: they made a bunch of changes... 

Ken: ... middle of the lens... implementation ... 

Lea: there's also a [spec](https://wicg.github.io/eyedropper-api/) that is not linked in the issue.  

Lea: thoughts: you notice there's an open method - there's no close method. so no way for a webapp to close an eyedropper it's opened. seems strange.  Also - if a user exits eyedropper mode without making a selection the eyedropper rejects with an abort error dom exception... I don't think this is an error condition.  Vs. resolve with null.  Peter seemed to have same opinion... 

Dan: +1

Ken: +1

Lea: Sangwhan also said it should not reject.  The new proposal is "rejected". 

Ken: I guess some developers might not consider you get a valid color back?  It's an abort.

Peter: I could see abort being thrown if it's something else that aborts it

Rossen: Yes how is it not regular user flow?

Ken: we should see how it works with filesystem access....?

Ken: file picker is consistent with reject...

Dan: consistency...  Maybe give them the info and ask them to think about it?

Ken: as a developer I like it.

Peter: let's not set a precedent with one example....

Ken: I think people get confused about it...  Looking back it should not be called error...

Peter: it's a question - are you using exceptions to signal error...

Ken: is the rejection of a promise an exception?

Peter: yes supposed to be.

Lea: yes.

Ken: if i want a color and don't get a color isn't that an exception?

Pete: should "cancel" file an exception?

Rossen: nothing exceptional about it - it's in normal user flow.

Lea: also handling exceptions is more heavyweight.

[vigorous debate ensues]

Peter: we should be consistent....  exception handling more heavyweight  in JS

Rossen: in our principles doc 

Dan: https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/promises-guide#api-design-guidance

Peter: https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/55

Lea: one of their use cases was a drawing application -- they had an event based design... we gave feedback this is not an appropriate design .. now they have a promise based design but this use case can't be preserve... on the other hand these types of app could implement their own eyedropper...  Also not sure what to suggest... 

Dan: might be something we should note back to them....

Peter: passing an abort controller into the open method rather than giving it a close method might be a better approach.

```md
Glad to see the improvements in both API shape and spec text!

We discussed this again in our plenary today and while we thought this was an improvement over the previous iteration, we did have a few thoughts and questions.

While it's good that there is some guidance for UAs on when to exit eyedropper mode without a selection (e.g. pressing ESC), it might be good to also provide a way for the application to explicitly close the eyedropper, e.g. a `close()` method or an `AbortSignal` parameter. Since no UI events are dispatched this would not be useful for closing the eyedropper through user interaction (e.g. via additional keyboard shortcuts), but it could be useful for closing the eyedropper (with no selection) in case another high-priority event occurs in the application, e.g. a modal dialog.

Some of us were surprised by the [promise rejection  when no selection is made](https://wicg.github.io/eyedropper-api/#eyedropper-interface) (vs resolving with `null`), since this is [ordinary use and not an unusual bad state](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/promises-guide#rejections-should-be-exceptional). Do you consider exiting without a color selection an error condition? Did you choose this design to be consistent with another API?

While we think the promise-based design is an improvement, we did notice that it does not address your original use case of picking colors from a drawing application. Only the final composited color will be picked with no means of tracing it back to the top-most color that the user may have intended to pick since no UI events are fired throughout the selection. What are your thoughts on this? Is there another way to accomplish this with the new design or did you decide that this is a non-goal for now?
Also note that for multiple color selection to be possible with a promise-based API like this, subsequent (synchronous) `open()` calls would need to open the eyedropper in the same place it was before. I don't see anything about this in the explainer or the spec.

Btw while `sRGBHex` definitely addresses our feedback on future-proofing this API, do note that a simpler `hex` property would also do, since all hex colors are in sRGB anyway. That also avoids the casing debates raised above.

Relevant, note that there is already an effort to standardize a Color API for the Web Platform by a subset of the CSS WG: https://github.com/WICG/color-api and serving this API is listed as an explicit goal.

```


#### [Pickling for Async Clipboard API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/636) - @cynthia, @torgo <- **close?**

#### [Shared Element Transitions - Early Review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/631) - @cynthia, @LeaVerou, @plinss <- **close?**

Ken: nice API... 

[discussion on this issue - there is going to be a CSS breakout tomorrow on this topic...]

Ken: one thing missing is the use cases .. should be in the explainer...

[consensus that this not ready to close]

Dan: will more info come out of the CSS session?

Rossen/Lea: yes.

Resolved to wait until feedback from CSS session - bump to next week.

#### [User-Agent Client Hints & UA Reduction](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/640) - @hober, @torgo <- special session suggested, @torgo to schedule

Dan: note still in progress - i took an action to get a meeting with mike taylor and henri.

#### [COOP same-origin-allow-popups-plus-coep](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/649) - @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman <- **close?**

Yves: multipe issues - we did send some feedback... 

Hadley: not in the issue itself..   did we cover it off elsewhere?

Yves: popup thing is for dialogs for payments

Hadley: and third party login

[recap of earlier conversations about this]

Hadley: we also had conscerns about the use cases...  

Rossen: do we have use cases?

Hadley: particular question i had was in the bank statement example are we assuming my bank will not serve my statement in another origin... the response was yes as far as I remember.. 

Hadley: my inclination is to condense some of this feedback into the issue so we can remember where we were on the issue...  I will do this.

Amy: i recall after the meeting with mike west we agreed we shouldn't get in the way ... 

Rossen: concerns about strategies about rollouts, schedules, timelines... 

Strategy for acquiring new customers coming on board with htis functionality, but also need to figure out how to change the defaults for existing content. How is that strategy going to play out?

Dan: I don't think there's a reason to leave it open. We've left feedback, they've heard it, asked some questions, want ot hear about the rollout schedule, but other than that no reason to keep this open

```
Hi all, 

We've discussed this in our W3C TAG meeting today. We want to thank you for a thorough and helpful meeting on this and COOP/COEP.

We want to summarise our thoughts here, so that we have the notes in one place, and then we'll close this issue. 

Our thoughts:

* We are concerned about anything that adds complexity to the web, confusing developers and making it harder for developers and site owners to produce websites. This proposal is substantially complex, though it does offer big benefits especially to users. 
* We are still interested to hear how use cases develop. In our meeting, we asked if there was an assumption that, for example, a bank will never want to surface a PDF of a customers' bank statement on another origin. It sounded like you might discover that that use case does — or doesn't — actually occur in the wild. It will be interesting to hear how the various groups impacted by this respond.
* We started a discussion with you all about how to shift the defaults on existing content to benefit from this proposal. On the one hand, that could be a very substantial shift for the web, which is always challenging. On the other hand, we are still behind our [Evergreen Web](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/evergreen-web/) finding and recognise that everything needs to upgrade. So we are interested to hear, in due course, how you want to explore this.

Thanks again, and we'll be keen to see how this develops. Please do come back to us as you learn more from your work.

```

#### [Early design review of modal close signals/ModalCloseWatcher](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/594) - @hober, @plinss

#### [CSS overflow: clip and overflow-clip-margin](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/579) - @hober, @atanassov

#### [Managed Device Web API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/606) - @cynthia, @kenchris <- **close?**

Dan: leave amy's proposed feedback and close with an unsatisfied...

Hadley: good comment.

[general agreement]

Amy: [closes]

#### [Early Design Review: Speculation Rules](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/611) - @hober, @rhiaro, @atanassov <- **close**

Close: managed device, module serviceworker, web codec...   PostTask was closed.  

#### Design Principles re-publish to TR

#### Breakout Rollup

#### Issue Triage

