## TAG Teleconference
##### 11 Month 2020

---

### Agenda:

#### Plenary Session

* `¯\_(ツ)_/¯`

-----

### Plenary Session

Present: Ken, Dan, Tess, Alice, Peter, David

Regrets: Hadley, Rossen



#### Design Principles

PR here: https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/pull/163

Tess: also working on html principles -> design principles

Dan: Is there anything else we need to do than review this PR?

Tess: No, just take a look and we can merge

Dan: There is another PR here 

Tess: I thought it was approved, can we merge?

Dan: I am going to merge it.

Dan: There is also a PR opened up by Rossen

David: Needs fixes (merging mistakes) before we can merge it

Dan: Was Anne's comment incorporates into it

Tess: From what I remember, yes

Dan: Is Rossen fixing the merging/rebasing?

David: Hoped Rossen would do it

Dan: After thius I think we should do a copy of  this to the w3c space and some PR - hopefully within the next  couple of weeks

Tess: I hope to get the PRs up for the html issues the next couple of weeks

David: I also started working on some CSS section, but just getting started

... Do we have a separate copy of this in w3c space?

...: We should, let me chat with Yves - we should have that

...: Is it currently a note or finding?

David: Collection of interesting ideas

Dan: Do we want to give it anh more formal stating than that?

Tess: What are the options?

Dan: We can do whatever we want, like publicsh a note

...: The promise guide is a finding (though it isreally a howto)

... Note kind of has a bad sounding - like we ditched it

... will talk to Yves

... Issue 153

Tess: David landed a change adding new headings

... What the doc really needs is an intro - dan you would take a crack at that?

... if we were to resurrect the html principles and put them in there - it didn't really fit with the outline - so what would be useful would be an intro and the rest of the front matter could just happen as part of the editing

Dan: Any other comments, issues? about the design principles document that we ought to focus on today - cheat sheet?

Alice: In general having a process for doing design reviews? Rossen brought that up as someone new on the TAG - we can be a bit inconsistent but we have an underlying mental check list that we go through wehen we look through an issue - part of what we are adding to the issue template - having a look at the explainer and looking for user needs etc and pushing back on that as quickly as possible

Dan: so wher should that go, its own thing?

Alice: Yes

... it could live in a GH repo, doesnt have to be that polished

Dan: Design review checklist, design review repo top level, linked from readme

Dan: I think it could be a questionare version of the design document, we can apply it or ask people to go through it

Ken: I think people just quickly look at it and say yes, but haven't studied it in details

Dan: that would be issue 154

... Alice do you ahve cycles to work on that?

Alice: In theory yeah, but not this week, still feeling tired from travelling - but you can assign to me

Dan: Doing that

Alice: Keeping the first week of the month as a non design review week makes sense

Dan: Agree

... Should we skip back to design reviews, like triage - what have we currently marked as proposed closing - 4 issues currently

... we could just go through these, would people be ok with that.

All: Sure... closing issues is good!

https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/354

Dan: I asked jeffrey yaskin what is the deal and Twitter DM'ed him - closing would be fine

... I think based on that repsonse let's close it

... Closing

https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/405 CSS Modules

Dan: Had additional comments after promised closing. David what is the story?

David: We looked at it in wellington and this depends on handing of import and that not being handled is affecting more and more specs

David: They are still looking for which model they want

Dan: Should we remove the proposed closing?

David: Probably yes

Dan: Can we have an impact

Ken: I think the right people are on it from Node, web and TC39

Dan: We can just keep taps on it

https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/437 CSS contain-intrinsic-size

Dan: Should update explainer with examples which have now been added

... this looks really good! <3

... prompted by our feedback - we should close this one! \o/

Alice: yes! Example is pretty nice

Dan: Closing

https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/461 Web NFC

Dan: Last one of the list today

Dan: Still controversy regarding standards position but not sure how we can help at this point

David: Hoping to get back to this this week and give more concrete advice - worth it?

Dan: I thikn it is worth it

... Punt it?

David: Sure


### other

Dan: Untriages issues? or looking at a different repo - the death repo

David: We also had 3 other issues with milestones for this weeks

Dan: Let's do those

... https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/358 issue, image capture API - bumping it

... https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/407 payment

David: Let's punt it for breakouts next week

Dan: https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/417 Service Worker Scope Pattern Matching

Ken: Pending update

Dan: Bump a couple of weeks


### Triaging

https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/479 WebXR Anchors Module

Dan: Milestone next week

https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/481 Title Bar Customization for PWAs

Ken Some parts probably ending up in CSS and in Web App Manifest (Web Platform)

https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/482 URL Protocol Handler Registration for PWAs

Ken: Assign me

https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/483 Scheming Cookies





















 

