## TAG F2F Tokyo - Day 3
##### 12 September 2019

Present: Dan, Peter, David, Kenneth, Yves, Tess, Alice, Hadley

Regrets: Lukasz

---

Agenda:

* 9:00 - 9:15 - XML (1.1) [obsoletion request](https://github.com/w3ctag/obsoletion/issues/6)
* 9:15 - 9:45 - Ethics Updates, finalizing meeting schedule
* 10:00 to 11:00 - TAG's role in post-director world (whenever it happens) with guest Elika & Florian and other AB members dialing in
* 11:00 to 12:00 - discussion based on abovce / adjusting our process 
* 12:00 to 13:00 - lunch
* 13:00 to 14:00 - breakout 9
* 14:00 to 14:15 - break
* 14:15 to 15:15 - breakout 10
* 15:15 to 15:30 - break
* 15:30 to 16:30 - breakout 11
* 16:30 to 17:00 - wrap-up


---

### Obsoletion of XML 1.1

Peter: My understanding is that 1.0, edition 5 

David: 1.1 made some backwards incompatable changes. then they ported some of those changes back to 1.0. 

Yves: some people did use the features. TTML.

[discussion on how TTML can move to 1.0]

David: are we hearing from the necessary communities about this?

Yves: if there is a user base then it should be kept but are there people using xml 1.1?

David: what the TAG does is put it to the vote at the AC and maybe the AC will know something else.

Yves: It makes sense to obselete the recommendaiton.

David: should it be obseleted or resciended / replaced?

Yves: Obseleted.

Tess: we don't have the data?

David: I don't know.

Yves: [discuss various ways to get some data]

Tess: possibly the most effective way to identify the community that needs 1.1 is to obselete  it and have them come yell at us.  We can always revese the decision.

David: seems reasonable.  One intermediate step is to send an email to AC-Forum and see if we get any response.  "if you would oppose such a vote please let us know why"

Tess: that would be great.

Dan: +1

[consensus recorded]

Yves: I can write the email.  [ACTION]

David: we give the AC a heads-up in advance.

### Ethics discussion

(Alice was supposed to minute but failed)

### TAG's role in post-director world 

Guests: Elika J Etemad, Florian Rioval, Chris Wilson, David Singer (remote), Jeff Jaffe (remote)

Florian: Process has many mentions of director which are trivial to "fix", e.g. "director will announce"

... A few slightly more interesting topics, including a few which touch on the TAG

... Think we should focus on TAG issues

... Such as, the director-appointed TAG members. Who will appoint them?

... Resolving formal objections. 

... Propose a joint committee (missed) that looks into that.

#### TAG members

Florian: We propose that elected members continue to be elected as before

... Director appointed seats continue to be appointed, but now by a nomination committee (TAG appointment committee), to be formed JIT to be in sync with elections.

... These appointments are intended to be made to balance the tag in terms of diversity, expertise, anything it may lack after the election.

... TAG appointment commmittee will be formed to start thinking while the election is underway, and complete after election results are announced. They will appoint the remaining people in the interim before next term starts.

... Pool of candidates are those who would be qualified to stand for election.

... Who is on that committee? Probably don't want to elect them.

... Current suggestion is to have a combination of current TAG members who are not up for re-election, and some WG chairs. We don't want all possible candidates, so we will pick "at random" 4 WG chairs, and 2 TAG members. CEO will pick a member of w3c Team.

... If somebody steps down out of cycle, we will form an equivalent appointment committee. 

Alice: replace special election?

Florian: no, this would only be for replacing appointed TAG members.

Dan: Are there any constraints on who from the Team can be selected?

Florian: No, it's up to the CEO

Dan: Could the CEO appoint themself?

Florian: That wouldn't be prevented.

Florian: Also, need to address how the TAG chair is appointed. We can discuss that later.

Dan: Can we restrict the candidates from the Team ... have an appointed architecture person on Team?

Elika: I'd rather leave it to the CEO to appoint the appropriate person.

Florian: I would naively expect today that (?) would be appointed to that.

Jeff: Want to provide some more background.

Jeff: Want us all to understand what kind of timeframe we're looking at. Likely not within a year or so, but a small number of years.

Jeff: AB is taking on this topic with full force because it's a big topic, need to work out details and socialise with stakeholders and community.

Jeff: 2 generic asks I'd like to get on the table. Florian has already jumped into this...

... In the new director-free consortium, the AB is imagining a greater role for the TAG than the TAG has today.

... Conclusion because of our respect for the work that the TAG does. We have also concluded similarly about the AB.

... Important that TAG comprehends the addition of formal role, resolving ... part of role. 
... Part of w3c council, resolving formal objections.

... For appointing people, the topic is a bit up in the air.

... AB has imagined a framework, some things we agree on and some things are open to discussion.

... Interested in TAG's input on assessing workload, and how election/appointment process will affect TAG.

Florian: We also considered getting a replacement director. That seems hard, and there was not consensus that eliminating the director was the right thing to do, but we are trying to design as if there was no director to determine whether that is possible.

Florian: Chairs tend to be statistically well placed to know the community well, and would be a good first port for appointing TAG members (?)

David S: Even if a director-free w3c isn't the right thing to do, it was the right thing to explore.

Dan: TAG members have concerns... we say things that the CEO may not like. That's worth taking into account, that the TAG may have an opposing view to the CEO. Would like to make sure that we're careful about the team's role in the nominating committee - even if the CEO can't be a member of the committee, there may still be a conflict of interest.

... Like the idea/concept in general, like everything that you said about it, but would like to address this one concern.

Elika: There is only one Team member on this committee, and there are six other members. There may be other members that don't like what you're saying, as well.

Peter: The rest of the committee members will be chosen randomly from the pool.

Elika: Yes.

Dan: What is the nominating process?

Elika: We have some qs for you about that.


Jeff: The current serving CEO strongly supports an environment where TAG can say things the CEO doesn't like. I hope I'm not overly intrusive in expressing my point of view. I appreciate when the TAG disagrees with me.

... We had a discussion when we wrote up what the team does... a lot of responsibilities were assigned to the CEO, and I pushed back. CEO doesn't do all those things... other people, architecture lead, do those things.

... One throat to choke theory. Team will figure it out, but want to have a clear person who is finally responsible.

Hadley: Distinction between CEO and Team... part of the CEO's job is membership, fundamentally about keeping the lights on. Keeping revenue coming in.

... sort of inevitable that if TAG is going to take a controversial position, someone in membership is going to inevitably be offside. That puts the CEO in a position where they might be losing revenue, membership, which impacts the community.

... I am concerned that if we're setting up a structure that outlasts the individuals currently on the TAG...

Florian: Note that we're only talking about the nomination committee, not the TAG membership.

Hadley: If committee is consensus based, ... may fundamentally change the makeup of the TAG.

David S: Committee needs to have someone to run the wheels... team tends to know ... people aren't on this committee to exercise control

Florian: I didn't see a conflict of interest, but if TAG does, perhaps we should change Team committee member to more of a Team contact.

Hadley: I agree about the value of having Team members involved. It would be a mistake to do this without them.

Tess: Does that equate to ...?

David: I'm concerned that the committee may be too small. The smaller the committee, the more random variation you get in what that committee is going to want.

Tess: How big are the nom coms for IAB?

David: around 11.

Tess: seems like maybe we should follow their precedent.

Elika: currently 1 Team, 2 TAG and 4 Chairs - we would need to add 4 more people to get to 11.

Sangwhan: How many candidates (for appointment) will be up for each round? The dynamics will change depending on how many candidates are being compared

Peter: Restricted to ...

Tess: Does the nom com nominate a slate, or does it nominate individuals?

Florian: doesn't nominate, just appoints. 

Elika: Different to IAB.

... Don't necessarily *need* an odd number. Working by consensus. Odd number avoids ties. Can say that staff contact doesn't have a role in forming consensus unless a tie breaker is needed.

... So, we can pick whatever number we want.

.. Probably 1 team contact is enough. 2 eligible TAG members. 4 WG chairs. Which pool do we pull more from, and/or do we add another pool?

Dan: What about representatives of developer community?

Elika: Like who?

Florian: AC reps already vote. Considered "everybody else" but couldn't find a viable option.

Elika: One option. Randomly select chairs from *everybody* who's a chair in the w3c. They can accept, or nominate an alternative from their community.

Dan: I like that idea.

Tess: So like a chair could pick an appointed expert.

Elika: or from www-style, I'd really like ??? to be on the nom com

Yves: ???

Florian: If Google, Apple and MS are in the nom com, we don't say they can't nominate more people from those same companies, but perhaps that should be wise.

Peter: I don't like a restriction that nom coms can't select people from their own organisations, though.

David: I'm a little hesistant... I don't like chairs being able to appoint people to the nom com. 

Chris: Agreed.

David: Random selecting is about picking people who are involved. The more you have the ability to be on that list but delegate the responsibility, the more incentive there is to be a chair in name only.

Elika: that doesn't seem like a realistic incentive given the probabilities involved.

Peter: If randomly selected people get to delegate, they'll just pick the same people year after year.

Elika: We could add a restriction e.g. can only serve once in a 3 year window.

... best way we can think of to get a reasonable pool of people who are well qualified and involved.

Tess: Institutional knowledge is a valuable factor in consecutive terms....

Peter: I remember the old days of the TAG when nobody cared about elections and we had a lot of inertia. 

Hadley: Former TAG members may be another pool, but also risks that inertia.

Peter: I don't want to churn the TAG for the sake of churning the TAG, either.

Dan: I would like to support ideas which allow the voice of the web developer to be heard in this. If chairs can do that, great, I can't think of a better mechanism besides coming up with a list of prominent web develoeprs, people who have attended w3c TPAC web dev day... that's a small pool.

Florian: Another thing... not only is there a committee, but the team must make a means to contact the committee, so the world can propose TAG members to appoint.

David: Also not comfortable with per-company limits, depending on size. Might make sense to limit to 2 per company rather than 1. 

Chris: For nom com...?

David: Who chairs WGs that are browser related? 

Chris: I wanted to dissent to using chairs as a pool, and I say that as a chair who knows other chairs. Some are fantastic and very representative; a large number are there for a specific purpose only. Want to make sure the community is represented. Lots of potential to abuse ability of chairs to nominate people to nom com.

Florian: could just forward your opinion though, in the case of corruption.

Chris: Good idea to have insitutional memory. Want to avoid the same people getting nominated by default.

... Have discussed a variety of options. Using AC in some fashion, or using AB.

Tess: AB is not about tactical concerns. Potentially even more removed from current technical work.

Chris: I suggested simply not having those appointed seats.

Dan, Florian: noted.

Elika: Ok, so people want a bigger appointment committee, and possibly remove/reduce influence from Team.

... Proposal: team is non-voting, breaks ties if needed

... No dissent there, resolved.

... Proposal: larger committee, specifically 11 rather than 7.

... or maybe 10...

David: what if we can't find enough ... want at least N and no more than M

Tess: can there be a minimum?

Florian: We will form a committee with whoever we can find. If committee can't form a consensus... then w3c staff appoints instead but only for 1 year.

Elika: better to not appoint than have team appoint...

Elika: Proposal: if committee can't form consensus, team will appoint for one year. 

Peter: Team should consult with current TAG chairs.

Elika: Agreed and Resolved.

Elika: Proposal: committee is 10 + 1 team contact.

... Resolved.

Elika: Who do we add?

Tess: 4/5 TAG members may be eligible at any given time.

Elika: More if TAG members term expires but choose not to run.

Tess: Could that be gamed...?

David: Appointment is finalised after election results are known.

Tess: After nomination ends, we know who's running. So that's ok.

Hadley: Would like to note that we'd like to find someone from dev committee.

TC39... IAB...

Elika: 3 resolutions, more stuff to discuss.

Dan: 3 TAG + 7 chairs?

Hadley: What about community representative?

Dan: If we have a formal community representative, drop from chairs.

Elika: 3 TAG and 7 other.

Elika: Include former TAG members?

Hadley: Not as useful as current TAG members, but more useful than any other pool not already mentioned.

David: How far back?

Elika: Maybe last 5 years?

Hadley: Maybe they are an "emergency" pool, if nobody else can be found?

Tess: Current TAG members should be required to serve on appointment committee.

Dan: If we're going to include TAG alumni, they should be in the same pool as chairs and should be time limited.

Tess: If we include former TAG at all, which I think we shouldn't, ...

Florian: We can circle back to this.

Peter: Random selection will be truly random? Pool is public and process is repeatable.

Florian: We will check.

Peter: Just want to make sure it's captured.

Elika: Randomly select from chairs and allow them to delegate, or ask chairs to self-nominate?

Florian: Third option...?

Hadley: Odds of me as a chair catching the email asking me to self-nom would be slim. Would be a much smaller pool.

Elika: Resolved: randomly select from chairs, ask if willing to volunteer.

Florian: Formal objections.

... Team is supposed to ask Tim, but mostly they don't because they can predict what he would say.

... Team tries to triage and build consensus. Elected bodies would be drowning in work if they didn't so we want to preserve this process.

.. Don't want them to rule in our name. If they can't form consensus they must approach the council formed of AB, TAG and CEO and then the council wrestles with it. 

... They may delegate to a subgroup, e.g. for purely technical issues perhaps they select 3 TAG members. Conclusion should involve everyone.

... Could pre-split. Didn't want to do this, most interestint objectives come from plenary.

David S: Only when debate is required, we'll form a subset, go away, do research, come back w recommendation.

Florian: How do we then decide? Simple majority, supermajority, consensus...?

... Don't have agreement on nuances. Agree has to work by consensus. Chair can observe that that is failing.

Hadley: Who is chair?

Florian: Picked by CEO.

Tess: From what pool?

Florian: I don't know.

... Intersection of people who understand a given topic, but don't have a stake on it, can be small to zero.

Hadley: Council will be convened and sit only when there is a formal objection. Process is catalysed by formal objection. Can select chair for the duration of objection, to not have a stake.

Dan: Chair should not be CEO. Conflict of interest. EME would be a good example here.

Tess: Need somebody room Team to brief us on prior research. Want that person to stick around to answer questions, Oh we tried that, etc. Would you consider non-voting Team contact?

Florian: CEO is part of AB. 

Hadley: Good to have CEO. Want everyone bought in. Can't finish that process without CEO. Need to present a unified vision, we're all in this together.

Tess: I agree. CEO should be in the room.

Elika: So council picks its chair per topic, and falls back to CEO...?

Tess: It's inherently per issue because the council only comes into existence to handle an objection.

Florian: unclear whether it continues to exist. May not be observable.

... What happens if there is a TAG or AB election....

Elika: let's go through one by one

... Proposal: Council picks own chair by consensus, by vote if that fails, aiming to pick someone neutral and disinterested. 

Chair need not be a member of council.

Others: Chair may vary throughout the course of a meeting.

Hadley: Think chair should be a member of council.

Elika: ok. Chair *must* be a member of Council.

David: ALso just easier from a process perspective.

Elika: Resolved: Council picks own chair by consensus, by vote if that fails, aiming to pick someone neutral and disinterested. 

Elika: Resolved: Chair *must* be a member of Council.

Hadley: I ahve a comment related to voting. I don't have an opinion on majority vs supermajority. I think that for contentious events like EME voting will be necessary.

... TAG is consensus based. 

... Council may come up with a resolution that someone in the council disagrees with, and it might be the firs ttime they've experience dit.

Tess: ... dissenting opinion

Florian: Dissenters can write a minority report.

Tess: ok.

David S: sometimes a decision has a deadline, and a lack of decision by the deadline is effectively a decision.

Tess: Are decisions timeboxed?

Florian: Must report to council. Chair has discretion.

Tess: Can we have a hard limit of, say, a year? As a backstop.

Elika: How about council must pick a deadline after e.g. 90 days. Can be extended but must be justified.

Hadley: I think that would be useful.

Tess: requires a heartbeat, which is useful.

Florian: Consensus is hard, you might just wait out the clock.

Tess: Consensus by exhaustion. People who don't want to actively reach consensus can wait it out.

Florian: If there is no guarantee that you'll eventually vote, you have to try and compromise.

Elika: Ok, after 90 days you have to report to the AC.

Hadley: Good idea.

Tess: I like the regular heartbeat. Every 90 days have to report back.

Florian: I think 90 days probably too short.

Hadley: Will majority/minority report be anonymous? I think they should - the council publishes both as the council.

Florian: Nice for community to know where people stand...

Hadley: Nice for individuals, but not for council. 

Florian: Don't thnk we can practically ban people from voicing their own opinion.

... Maybe not requiring but ....

Hadley: Don't want people to grandstand by being the rebel. Makes the council decision not look like the decision of the council.

Tess: TAG and AB are accountable to electorate. Electorate may use it to judge our competence. 

Peter: The council is accountable as a whole.

... I would like to make this process a little bit scary for objectors, so that it's not encouraged.

Elika: Goal: Make this process scary

David: MInority report... do you say what percentage support the minority report has? I think you should, but Hadley might disagree.

Tess: Suppose several dissenting opinions. One minority report... 

... game becomes to write the minority report to reflect multiple opinions though one person may have multiple objections.

David: Minority reports can serve to indicate how much consensus there was. US supreme court has 5:4 opinion vs 8:1. Named.

... Better to be clear and say how many. Would rather have two separate minority report.

Florian: That is allowed by the phrasing we have. Whether named or not is unclear. I would support putting names on things.

Chris: I think you need to be able to opt out of the council if things must not be named.

Hadley: I agree that numbers make sense.

Elika: Any consensus on whether report is signed, unsigned, or may sign?

Chris: If nothing is named, should be able to opt out of council to avoid implication that you agree.

Hadley: If 25% of the council opts out, does that deligitimise the decision?

Tess: Would be council members who would always have to opt out, so would be biasing decision making body.

Florian: Discussed recusals. If you filed, or made the decision, you must recuse. Anyone else may recuse.

Hadley: I support that. We are all going to have an interest, as a result of the same origins as familiarity. We are not representing our companies. e.g. TAG decision on EME goes against your employer... some lack of transparency may be protective.

Florian: clarification... 

Hadley: Was thinking in contect of minority/majority reports.

Elika: Majority of reports should be signed... unsigned?

David: I think .... ????

Florian: Report is effectively signed when there is consensus.

David: Can't tell who agreed with a conesnsus opinion

Chris: If multiple people want to sign, fine. If nobody will sign, doesn't seem like a consensus.

Florian: somebody will send the email.

Peter: Can say chair will post decision in any case.

Chris: Minority report can be signed.

Hadley: I respectfully disagree.

... Giving ppl the opportunity to sign minority reports ..  not the point of the process. As soon as you start ascribing individual names it loses th authority of being from the council.

Elika: agreed

Chris: Agreed for majority opinion, minority opinion is quite different. I think you're encouraging more negative behaviour.

Florian: If I have to sign both sides I will be mindful of the writing of both sides.

Chris: I would like hypothetically to be able to state that I dissented.

Elika: If you allow the minority report to be signed, you're implying the identities of the majority.

Florian: Minutes are public. If you can't state things contrary to your employer you shouldn't be there.

Chris: I agree with this.

Hadley: It is a position of privilege to say you should get your employer on board or change employers.

Elika: Minutes may be private, or some discussions may be unminuted.

Peter: Consequences may be higher, may sink someone's business model.

Chris: So might TAG. So might any WG.

Tess: Are we resolved on the 90 day heartbeat?

- If FO not resolved in 90 says, must report status to AB.

... prevents things falling ito the abyss.

Peter: would like a template for report (?)

... Status of discussion, Expectation for next 90 days.

Florian: would like to avoid requirement to write a long report every 90 days.

Peter: Chair should have 3 status points to write up.

Hadley: Can we call it an update rather than a report.

Florian: It's the chair that reports.

Elika: If FO not resolved in (X) days, Chair must report status to AC. Report may be public. 90 <= X <= 180.

... Resolved.

... Unresolved: Majority/minority reports are unsigned/signed/may sign.
... Unresolved: Majority/minority report should indicate % of support.

Florian: People who care the most/most principled may be more likely to recuse.

Peter: have to allow people to recuse, for reasons.

Elika: Florian said... some proposals to formally subset the council from TAG + AB + CEO.

Tess: seems to lose legitimacy

Elika: So, do you agree or disagree.

Hadley: End result needs to be bought into by entire group by whatever process makes sense. May be a task force. Maybe plenary. Maybe talking to other experts.

... What matters is not the methodology, it's the getting to the end.

... By the rules agreed, thsi body has gotten to this decision.

Tess: Council has to do this work and has to decide how to do that. Subcommittees, Robert's Rule, whatever. Has to come from the whole group.

Hadley: Council cant give its authority to anybody else.

Florian: That is the majority opinion of the AB... minority don't trust a group of that size to ever come to consensus.

Elika: Proposal: TAG supports that full council must *issue* the conclusion, even if ad-hoc task forces formed to do work.

Elika: Proposal: scrap all this completely, a separate council is formed to resolve formal objections.

Hadley: We have enough trouble getting eople to vote in TAG elections.

Elika: Agreed.

David S: Who would even stand..?

Plinss: If not this group, woul dhave to be random like jury duty.

Tess: Closest analogy are PAGs which only form when there are IP exclusions

... a lot of process to do an election every time.

... Original AB proposal makes sense.

... buck stops technically with TAG, etc. 

Elika: Resolution: No separately elected council.

Dan: Is there any other role that this new body plays besids objections?

Florian: There are currently some things not named formal objections but very similar, council would handle those. E.g. rejected decisions. 

David S: AC opinions...?

Florian: WG can't find consensus...? 

... Interesting question. There was a suggestion that maybe we should be taking way more power away from the director.

Tess: Does the AB have any data to give us status on the expected workload currently?

Florian: Don't remember numebrs

Tess: Any trends? Give me charts and graphs.

Florian/Elika: only a few times a year.

... major disagreements are rare, but smaller disputes happen a few times a year.

Peter: What is expcted work load of council? f2f meetings?

Elika: Will need to be decided based on issue. May be telcon, email, etc.

Tess: Appointed TAG members don't have a nomination organisation that is backing their funding. Requiring them to attend a f2f seems like undue burden.

Florian: Meaning we can't have f2f?

Tess: Require decisions to be made async, allow for f2f but folks who can't attend must have their voice heard.

... Would want this to be formalised.

... Do have people on TAG who do not have funding for this work.

Peter: Should not rqeuire an additional travel burden.

Tess: Already privilege required to be abel to do this work. Shouldn't further reduce our pool to even more privileged.

Peter/Elika: Travel may be opportunistic. No *additional* travel burden.

Elika: Resolved: 

David S: ... may overrule council? 

Tess: That's a separate thing... legal entity..

Hadley: None of us apart from Team works for w3c. If council has legitimacy... board of directors contradicts... 

Florian: Board include elected people from membership, but not only.
Hadley: If council decides and community accets, what happens if board objects...

Florian: ...?

... Process via membership agreement is a contract. Contracts may physically be violated. Board may technically violate contract but would be disincentivised...

David S: Council is last court of appeal.

Hadley: Would be nice to make role of board of directors clear, even if it's none.

Elika: Board of directors has no role in process, but can edit.

Hadley: Can'te dit TAG findings...

Elika: technically they can edit the website

Florian: ???

Elika: 2 remaining issues...

... turnover. Ongoing discussion. TAG or AB membership changes... Should council have a fixed membership per issue?

Tess: Prefer fixed membership per issue.

Peter: May step down... may backfill?

Tess: no backfill.

Elika: Resolved: Membership of council is fixed at formation, modulo recusal/resignation.

Peter: should have a minimum threshold for retention below which council will be re-formed.

All: Agreed.

Elika: Should council only be able to rule on sustaining/rejecting an objection, or should they have or be able to make a specific alternative suggestion?

Hadley: Can say objection is valid, proposed solutions may include these...?

David S: formal objection is an objection to A


Jeff: "Reading through the discussion I am concerned about the degradation of the role of the team.  The team has a vital responsibility to make sure things don’t get stuck in forever analysis. I believe that is why we asked the ceo to chair the council. The ceo is only one of many many votes." [sic]


### Portals

Peter: Our position is that we'd like to see this as a new primiitive - not a solution to a specific problem.

Tess: It's harder for other engines to justify implementing a completely new iframe.

Jeremy: We did add more information in the explainer about this

Kenji: It would be useful to know why it is hard to implement this particular feature

Peter: There is a lot of work that went into making iframes usable, this is something we shouldn't overlook.

Kenji: About element vs attribute, should we solicit feedback from the origin-trial partners?

Peter: Yes, absolutely

Tess: Worth noting that the security section is somewhat light on details

Jeremy: We've looked into it and can explain better


Actions: Kenji and Jeremy to look into common interface, element vs attribute


### Screen enumeration

TEss: using the right pixed density for content in the page -- it's handled without an enumeration API. It only comes up at the time you actually drag the window over to the other screen. that has privacy benefits, and you don't need a new API

So I'm looking at these use cases, and wondering if they're possible iwthout a new API. That would be great.

The third one, you can do now, though maybe on some engines.

Peter: there is also the media capabilities API.

Tess: and the media source element. that would let you adapt to different media queries matching. 

So the results would change depending on display. Presumably.

So my bias going into this: can we do something simpler?

peter: counterpoint: they're talking about the windos placement API, proposed.

tess: this is lower level to that. This is foundational for some aspects of windo placement.

peter: one use case -- open a window and target it in another monitor -- I could see you targeting that.

tess: it already happens, windowopen takes a target 
WE could expand that?

peter: that's a potential option.

....the slide show use case is an interesting one. Slides on the projector and notes on your laptop. How could we do that? Is there  a media query?

tess: there is. the web signage stuff uses it. 

... Projection. Media type. Defined in HTML. 

peter: its depreciated, from Q4. We could de-deprecate it, or replace it with something better.

... i'm not sure if the OS knows that it's a projection.

tess: sometimes... detected by VGA

Hadley: sometimes I'm projecting on a big screen... might b3 useful to make this a bit more abstract, in a name

tess: generally, enumeration APIs are bad. We do badly on privacy. WebRTC let you enumerate cameras and microphones, which is mostly now used for fingerprinting. Typically what's better is picker APIs. ex: webkit-specifi api for custom media control for airplay. Like the Second Screen stuff. No way to get a lost of Airplay-able devices, but upon user activation you can call an API that asks the OS to display a picker. if the user picks that device, then it's available to that page.

...So I'm inclined to consider an alternative API that allows the user agent to ask the user to pick things, and only provide what they chose.

peter: or something that'spurely declarative. People will still use that for fingerprinting, but it reduces the problem space.

tess: it's easier to  mitigate. YOu can be a bit fuzzy... but in enumeration, it's hard to lie. Dummy cameras and microphones on the webrtc case...

tess: I'm concerned that the alterative approaches in the explainer are conceptually the same solution, but small changes. I feel like they haven't adequately considered a declarative or picker approach.

...Good to see the privacy and security section. But I'm worried that becasue they didn't consider alternatives that would have a better fingerprinting story, their mitigations are kind of weak. Assuming the battle is lost. 

Tess: I'll comment on the issue.

### Trust token API

tess: this is where someone like cloudflare vend a bunch of cryptographyically signed tokens to the browser, and when the user goes to a site that wants to make sure you're a person, the browser can present the token. the site knows it comes from cloudflare, but not who the user is.

peter: I'll look at the math

hadley and tess: good. this is worth verifying.

Peter: this has to have a way to work even if the issuer were to become compromised or evil.

tess: this was originally created as a proprietary thing specifically for Tor users. And is proprietary to Cloudflare. So this is conceptually similar, but open and decentralised. 

...and then the site could discriminate based on issuer.

hadley: like certifcate authorities.

tess: the architecture question I have: as a single vendor technology, CloudFlare's privacy pass has been useful and has gotten some adoption. If we decentralise it, will it still work well?

peter: also, higher level: let's assume they're solveable problems... is this something we want in the platform?

hadley: I'm concerned about this expanding into a lot of other identity-related use cases. 



### Raw clipboard API

tess: I'm worried about all the os apps that aren't prepared for raw web content

peter: if the use case is copied from Microsoft Offidce and I'm pasting in Office 365... I want a much lower level of content than HtML.

Maybe there is a way of a web app to say "I'm interested in these types" or "I can provide these types.."

tess: sure. but if there is an exploitable Microsoft Word hack, and it comes with your copied text from Pasteboard...
aq
peter: and the website shouldn't be able to check the clipboard and say "Oh, there's content here"

Hadley: I'm also worried about violating user expectations... a lot can be hidden in a copy that they're not aware they're pasting, so they can't protect themselves from the risk 

[discussion about process]

agreed: we are VERY concerned about this. Tess will write up a comment from us and get TAG consensus before posting.



### WebXR Discussion with Chris Wilson

Discussion on 3d video formats. There are a lot of them and they are all incompatible.

Alice: Why does navigator.xr.supportsession not return a promise boolean rather than …  they have opened an issue. “It seems our usage is similar to other usage” - 

Alice: [adds issue to design principles repo on this topic](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/137).

[discussion on what immersive means and whether you need the VR at the end of immersive-VR]

Chris: you can still have an immersive VR experience in a device as it was treated as the whole device. In-line is “we’re not doing the imagery” we’re just giving access to the sensors... 

Alice: screenshots or mockups would be helpful.

Chris: I expect in-line will disappear in the long run. 

Dan: magic window is another name for this.

Alice: what is pokemon go then?

Crhris: has immersive VR and immersive AR mode. Immersive isn’t about wearing goggles or not.  In-line is when you put a window on the page… 

Alice: instead of writing to a XR webgl layer you write to a canvas.. 

Chris: yes

Alice: [going through additional issues filed by Alice on the WebXR API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/403#issuecomment-527299905)

[discussion on layers - right now only one but future ]

Chris: the goal is not to have 1:1 stacked layers but rather to have embedding - e.g. browser window floating in mid-air in an immersive environment, DOM content or encrypted video.

[on canvases]

[on blurred]

Alice: system level modal dialog and dashboard would be 2 good examples... 

Chris: you can't interact with it but it still needs to be re-rendered in a blurred state.

[on accessibility]

Alice: i would like to see accessibility addressed in the main document (rather than a separate document). At least a high level outline would be good.  Otherwise it's out of sight out

Dan: yes I agree.

Dan: there is a [workshop happening in November](https://www.w3.org/2019/08/inclusive-xr-workshop/) in Seattle on this topic.

Chris: you ad some really great points [Alice]. The key here it's possible to build web audio/3d audio. You could get an immersive audio experience [with the existing webaudio API].  3js has support for this. spacially positioned 3d object.  There are some challenges like magnification.  When you're talking about a 2d context you can make the display bigger - you can't do that in VR.  The biggest challenges [in webxr] is creating the right set of hooks.

Alice: it would be great to have someone on the [xr] team of people working on this that is focusing on accessibility.

Chris: I do have some help that the workshop will help find people interested in driving that.

Alice: I have use cases. [discussion of use cases, also written up in the comment]

Alice: "e.g. lighthouse for the blind" 

Dan: facial expression recognition for people who have trouble 

[vr and ar experiences]

Chris: doing a virtual assistive device [one of the use cases], you have the elements youd' need.

Alice: my point is that the use cases should be more inclusive.

[discussion on magnification]

Chris: leaning physically can be one way to do this...

Chris: i should also point out we have no way to render text in immersive without rendering text to a canvas and copying it. it's still a challenge we will figure out.

Alice: something that worked like a camera zoon built in  would be nice...

#### Revisiting [WebTransport]()

Connected Work going on in IETF and WHATWG... 

RTCquictransport would be a p2p version of this...

Websocketstream is also adding a new API for websockets...

Is there a divergence between this and WebSocketStream? 

David: their goals are better API for websockets and one that supports backpressure... but it's shorter term work than WebTransport.  Sounds like they are thinking similarly in terms of the javascript API surface.  I've already commented asking them to not diverge.  They are trying to make the APIs integrate with WHATWG streams. 

Dan: thinking of developer needs: if I develop with one and then the other comes out, do I have to redevelop?

David: the javascript API for web sockets is pretty clunky. The WSS is "let's design a modern JavaScript API for this". If it's done right then my hope is that WebTransport doesn't need to change the API, just the constructor.  We should push it in that direction. I think that's a coherent story for developers.

Dan: how to encourage that in our feedback?

[david writes something]

#### Revisiting DisplayLock

Dan: I added a comment asking them to be more explitit about user needs in the explainer.


