## TAG Teleconference
##### 22 May 2018

Present: Dan, Kenneth, Peter, Sangwhan, David, Travis, Alex, Lukasz

Regrets: Yves, Hadley

---

Agenda:

#### [CSS Selectors 4, :focus-visible.](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/233) @plinss @dbaron @travisleithead 

@torgo: Moving to the 29th

#### [Payment Handler pending external feedback](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/231) @slightlyoff @dbaron @hadleybeeman

@dbaron: Didn't get to read through the feedback yet, moving to the 29th.

#### [CSS ::part and ::theme pseudo elements pending external feedback](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/230) @dbaron

@dbaron: Waiting on external feedback, might not be worth waiting for, maybe we should just close it.

@plinss: I am happy closing it, we can keep tabs on what is happening in the CSS WG.

#### [Web Components Guidelines Doc?](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/227) @kenchris

@kenneth: Postponed until I got a bit more feedback.

@travisleithead: I would like to take a look and give some feedback.

@torgo: Me too. Bumped until 29th.

#### [Permission Delegation In Progress](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/225) @dbaron @torgo @lknik

@dbaron: this wasn't a request from spec authors, so not sure where to put feedback etc.

@torgo: as @lknik isn't around, bumped to 29th.

#### [CSS Layout API In Progress](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/224) @dbaron @torgo @travisleithead

@travisleithead: Filed [issue](https://github.com/w3c/css-houdini-drafts/issues/760) with general points from Alex: Fragments should have ctors. Second: requesting what happens when exceptions are thrown, 3) Whether a dictionary should be used instead of interface for `IntrinsicSizes`. 4) Question about renaming `layoutNextFragment` 5) IDL usage bugs in various examples 6) General comment about readability - none are dealbreakers... Suggest that we close this issue. We can also mark it as pending external feedback and check back in in 6 months.

@torgo: let's do it at the F2F

#### [Web Share Target API pending external feedback](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/221) @cynthia @dbaron

@dbaron: Alex and I had discussions with them end-feb, and it ended up with big design changes.

@slightlylate: Not much progress on the issues since then

@dbaron: We should look at this when there is more progress

@torgo: Bumped until first meeting of June, 5th of June, or 12?

@slightlylate: Pinging Matt and let them drive it

#### [ReportingObserver pending external feedback](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/195) @cynthia @slightlyoff

@torgo: Lots of issues were opened up. All still open. @travisleithead what is your current view on this? A bit of comments on some of the issues

@travisleithead: We want to grab these people at the F2F or invite them.

@torgo: Who can bring these people together, should we have a focused call

@travisleithead: will be hard to bring all together time zone wise

@slightlylate there is currently an intent to ship, but no permission yet, and open privacy issues etc - TAG is still waiting for resolution on issues.

@travisleithead: Dropping a note in the issue.

@torgo: Bumped to 29th to see how we want to proceed. Is this time sensitive? 

@slightlylate: will give feedback to team that they should act on the feedback when they are doing an intent to ship. I will reach out to them.

@travisleithead: I posted to blink-dev, might need to be approved

#### [Review Accessibility Object Model In Progress](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/134) @travisleithead

@sangwhan: Was lazy and forgot to send reminder mail. Just sent one, will try to setup a separate call in sensible hours between ACT, JST, and PST.

@torgo: Reach out to her to invite her to remotely participate in F2F

@sangwhan: I will do that

---

#### Triage

* [TextEncoderStream and TextDecoderStream](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/282)

@sangwhan: Volunteering

@torgo: Milestone 2 weeks

* [Request review of Gamepad API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/281)

@kenneth: Seems to be this one https://w3c.github.io/gamepad/

@plinss: Wants to go to CR.

@sangwhan: Basically like the original spec. I will be interested in looking at this and the Web XR thing at the same time.

@torgo: Let me reach out to Brandon Jones - leaving comment about Web XR overlap etc.

@sangwhan: I will come with with review in two weeks.

* [sec-metadata](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/280)

@slightlylate: I will discuss with the team and follow up. [This was for an earlier issue, on ReportingObserver]

@torgo: Assigned to @dbaron

* [Background fetch](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/279)

@torgo: are we ready to give feedback

@slightlylate: There are things we can look at how, you can assign me.

@torgo: Assigning, two weeks. Assigning @kenneth as well.

* [Async local storage](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/278)

@slightylate: they way you pull this in is novel (layered API).

@kenneth: 276 is about that.

@dbaron: my collegues (db people) are complaining that this only covers simple cases

@slightlylate: how will this play with Web Locks API proposal

@torgo: Assigning @travisleithead and @kenneth - two weeks time.

* [WebUSB on Dedicated and Shared Workers](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/277)

@kenneth: I gave some feedback already.

@torgo: Assigned to @kenneth - is there an issue opened on their repo. Pending external feedback.

* [Layered APIs](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/276)

@dbaron: happy to be one of the people looking at this, but its a pretty big change to the platform so we need feedback from many sides.

@travisleithead: Adding @kenneth to the action

(@sangwhan volunteered too, but the phantom of WebRTC took his voice.)

@kenneth @sangwhan can self assign himself

* [Request TAG review of HTML5.3](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/275)


