## TAG Teleconference
##### 20 November 2018

Present: Peter, Sangwhan, David, Yves

Regrets: Kenneth, Lukasz

---

Agenda:

* JS Modules and Feedback from Node Community - do we need an issue?
* [Background Fetch](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/279) - @slightlyoff @kenchris @travisleithead
* [<link> rel="modulepreload"](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/213) - @slightlyoff
* [Intersection Observer](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/197) - @slightlyoff @dbaron
* [Accessibility Object Model](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/134) - @cynthia @torgo @travisleithead
* [`sec-metadata`](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/280) - @slightlyoff @dbaron @hadleybeeman @plinss
* [HTTP State Tokens](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/297) - @torgo @hadleybeeman @travisleithead
* [TextEncoderStream and TextDecoderStream](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/282) - @cynthia @kenchris @travisleithead  
* [HTML General Review: Web Sockets](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/268) - @slightlyoff @ylafon
* [Signed Exchanges](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/235) - @slightlyoff @dbaron
* [Should WebRTC be [SecureContext]](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/228) - @travisleithead @cynthia
* [Media Capabilities](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/218) - @cynthia @plinss
* [Serialization of natural language in data formats such as JSON [I18N]](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/178) -  @cynthia @dbaron @travisleithead
* [Clear Site Data](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/62) - @slightlyoff

---

Meeting called due to low attendance




