## TAG Teleconference
##### 13 November 2018

Present: Dan, Peter, David, Alex

Regrets: Lukasz, Kenneth, Sangwhan

---

Agenda:

* [Background Fetch](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/279) - @slightlyoff @kenchris @travisleithead
* [<link> rel="modulepreload"](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/213) - @slightlyoff
* [Intersection Observer](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/197) - @slightlyoff @dbaron
* [Accessibility Object Model](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/134) - @cynthia @torgo @travisleithead
* [`sec-metadata`](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/280) - @slightlyoff @dbaron @hadleybeeman @plinss

David: useful for the sites can can use it. [larger sites] but can be pretty useful for those organizations. On the other hand it adds some overhead to hhevery http request.

Alex: we've had the conv about header bload before but - wwe can ask http people if we are over-budget. Unquantified fear is not an argument.  let's find out.  

Dan: [worried that] It makes the web platform more oriented towards big web - 

Alex: help me understand argument.  sec metadata is a header. if i have a CMS - sec metadata could [make use of?] that.

David: It requires a bunch of server side logic to reject requests for resources in specific cases. 

Alex: CDN configuration... could be one answer.

[]David: they will need to figure out how to get people describe the expected uses...

Alex: a font CDN or some other special CDN... then suddenly this helps me lock this service down.

Alex: i would like to see [both] addresed. 

---

[other issues punted to next week]


