## TAG Teleconference
##### 15 May 2019

Present: David, Peter, Tess, Alice, Dan, Lukasz

Regrets: Sangwhan, Kenneth

---

Agenda:

* [MediaStream Image Capture API (Pan/Tilt feature)](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/358) - @cynthia, @kenchris
* [Autoplay Detection API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/356) - @hober, @hadleybeeman
* [Async Clipboard - image/delayed content](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/350) - @cynthia
* [User Activation Delegation through postMessages](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/347) - @hober, @alice, @plinss
* [Web Publications review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/344) - @dbaron, @torgo, @hadleybeeman
* [Import maps](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/340) - @cynthia, @kenchris
* [Event Timing API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/324) - @hober, @dbaron
* Web of Things
* Any last logistics for next week's f2f

---


### [MediaStream Image Capture API (Pan/Tilt feature)](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/358) - @cynthia, @kenchris

Nobody assigned is present.

### [Autoplay Detection API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/356) - @hober, @hadleybeeman

Tess: We talked about this on a recent telcon, I have yet to update my feedback on the TAG review based on that telcon feedback. Will do so soon.

Dan: Bumping to f2f.

### [Async Clipboard - image/delayed content](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/350) - @cynthia

Sangwhan not present.

### [User Activation Delegation through postMessages](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/347) - @hober, @alice, @plinss


Alice: The last comment ... looking into use cases.  I think this one is pending feedback, or possibly even "ping to reopen".  I'll set "pending external feedback" for now, and I'll ping folks internally to encourage them to get us feedback by next week.

Dan: Set milestone to f2f?

Alice: yes

### [Web Publications review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/344) and [Audiobooks](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/345)- @dbaron, @torgo, @hadleybeeman

Dan: also 345.

Dan: I had a call with Tsviya about both of these a couple of days ago. They're working on our feedback. In 344 there has been some back-and-forth, some of which was orthogonal to the main review. Tzviya noted that; the ball is in their court because they're looking to update the spec, in particular to address the issues David raised. We should probably revisit at the f2f.

Dan: Milestone update.

Dan: Regarding audiobooks, they're going to be updating the explainer.

Tess: Most of my feedback was questions that could have been answered in the explainer.

Dan: Some of the decisions they've taken in the spec are driven by specific stakeholder needs, and this should be noted in the explainer. Trying to balance concerns between web community and publishing community. Hoping they have an updated explainer we can take a look at at the f2f; ball is in their court, issue is pending external feedback.

Dan: Tzviya is looking for feedback also on how to make TPAC more welcoming to new people.

### [Import maps](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/340) - @cynthia, @kenchris

Kenneth is not present.

### [Event Timing API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/324) - @dbaron

David: I haven't had a chance to look at it.

(Discussion about planned f2f discussion on working mode and how to be more efficient in getting through reviews.)

### Web of Things

Dan: I don't have much to say about this. We definitely need to refine how we deal with specs like this where we don't necessarily have specific expertise in the group.

Lukasz: This is complex and big. 

Dan: We should do a breakout at the f2f. The f2f is one place where we do parallelise well and that's been a success in terms of getting better throughput. We need to do that again this time to make some progress on these types of topics.

### Any last logistics for next week's f2f

Tess: When is the developer meetup?

Dan: Developer meetup is on Tuesday evening. We will have 5 minute lightning talks.

Lukasz: Do we want to work on some findings during the f2f?

Dan: Yes, we should set some time aside for that, and also I propose to release the ethical principles doc as a finding.






