### Call Agenda

This agenda can be viewed and updated on [Github](https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2019/telcons/06-19-agenda.md).

If you would like to add an item to the agenda or volunteer to scribe please open a pull request against this agenda.

### Technical Architecture Group - [2019-06-19](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20190619T050000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=248&p6=240)

<table>
<tr><td> San Francisco (U.S.A. - California) <td> Tuesday, 18 June, 22:00 GMT-7</td></tr>
<tr><td> Boston (U.S.A. - Massachusetts) <td> Wednesday, 19 June, 01:00 GMT-4</td></tr>
<tr><td> London (United Kingdom - England) <td> Wednesday, 19 June, 06:00 BST</td></tr>
<tr><td> Paris (France) <td> Wednesday, 19 June, 07:00 CEST</td></tr>
<tr><td> Tokyo (Japan) <td> Wednesday, 19 June, 14:00 GMT+9</td></tr>
<tr><td> Sydney (Australia) <td> Wednesday, 19 June, 15:00 GMT+10</td></tr>
<tr><td> Corresponding UTC (GMT) <td> Wednesday, 19 June, 05:00 UTC</td></tr>
</table>

* TPAC Session
* [Badging API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/387) - @hober
* [A toast UI element](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/385) - @kenchris
* [MediaStream Image Capture API (Pan/Tilt feature)](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/358) - @cynthia, @kenchris
* [Pointerevent extension](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/346) - @cynthia, @alice, @lknik
* [Import maps](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/340) - @cynthia, @kenchris
* [Element Timing API (images and text)](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/326) - @dbaron, @kenchris
* [Event Timing API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/324) - @dbaron, @kenchris
* [JavaScript WeakRefs](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/321) - @alice, @dbaron, @kenchris
* [CSS Properties and Values API Level 1](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/318) - @hober, @alice, @dbaron
* [FetchEvent.resultingClientId](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/307) - @ylafon, @travisleithead
* [Display Locking](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/306) - @cynthia, @dbaron, @kenchris
* [Form Participation API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/305) - @plinss, @lknik
* [RTCIceTransport](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/304) - @cynthia, @dbaron
* [RTCQuicTransport](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/303) - @cynthia, @dbaron
* [Feature Policy JS introspection API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/292) - @cynthia, @kenchris
* [Spatial Navigation](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/287) - @cynthia, @dbaron, @hadleybeeman

### Logistics

Chair: Dan

Scribe:

IRC: irc.w3.org / #tagmem

Bridge: https://meet.jit.si/w3ctag first then going to https://appear.in/w3ctag as a back-up

* Please note*: this meeting is open to TAG members and invited guests. If you would like to participate, please email the chairs.

Archived minutes: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2019/telcons/06-19-minutes.md

Raw minutes: ...
