## TAG Teleconference
##### 24 July 2019

Present: Peter, Alice, David, Dan, Lukasz

Regrets: Sangwhan, Tess

---

Agenda:

* private browsing modes? 
* [WebSocketStream](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/394) - @kenchris
* [Layout Instability Metric](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/393) - @alice, @dbaron, @lknik
* [SMS Receiver API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/391) - @hober, @dbaron, @torgo
* [Badging API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/387) - @hober, @alice, @torgo
* [JavaScript Memory API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/386) - @cynthia, @kenchris
* [Web Authentication Feature Detection](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/383) - @dbaron, @torgo, @hadleybeeman
* [Web of Things (WoT) Thing Description](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/357) - @torgo
* [Web of Things (WoT) Architecture](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/355) - @torgo

---

### Web of Things

A bunch of Web of Things folks joined; was a misunderstanding; the intent was to schedule a separate call.

Seems like that call will need to be week after next (week of August 5)

### [Layout Instability Metric](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/393)

Alice: no responses since last week.  Numbers don't seem to be very percise...  variation between browsers.  [some discussions of comments left on issue].  How do yoi measure this in a way that makes sense...

Peter: Florian raised a bunch of concerns - [message sent to blinkdev](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!msg/blink-dev/bI7qfrSQBZY/wztRFVQoBQAJ)... july 20th.

[...reading...]

Alice: some of his comments are spec issues... [editorial] ... don't understand the fragmention comment... he makes the point that there are spec issues that may cause trouble for interop.  

Dan: can we ask them to come back to us when they revise?

Alice: we are waiting on responses to issues we raised - we could just set it to progress: pending external feedback ?

[discussion on whether to bump]

Alice: how do we recapture things once they have feedback... 

Dan: meta issue - let's discuss - maybe we can use a bot

Peter: bot that looks for issues on pending feedback and looks for new comments from non tag members and flags that...

### [SMS Receiver API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/391) - @hober, @dbaron, @torgo

[we agreed to bump 2 weeks]

### [Badging API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/387)

Alice: suggest we bump...

Dan: agree

Alice: 1 week

### [Web Authentication Feature Detection](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/383)

David: this is a review of a subfeature of webauth - I asked if there was an explainer and the response was a pointer to webauth as a whole...  

Dan: I feel like we should push this back to them and say we can't proceed without requested info...

Hadley: with you... I will write comment...

Peter: [sets labels]

### web of things

Dan: we had a breakout - we agreed to set up a follow-on call. 

Hadley: yes...

