## TAG Teleconference
##### 23 October 2019

Present: Tess, Peter, Lukasz, Dan

Regrets: David, Sangwhan, Hadley, Alice, Kenneth

---

Agenda:

* [Service Worker Scope Pattern Matching explainer](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/417) - @cynthia, @torgo, @kenchris
* [Raw Clipboard Access API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/406) - @hober, @torgo, @hadleybeeman
* [hrefTranslate attribute](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/301) - @dbaron, @torgo, @hadleybeeman


---



### [Raw Clipboard Access API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/406) - @hober, @torgo, @hadleybeeman

Tess: Hadley, Dan and I did a breakout on this last week. we didn't get to the agenda item last week. 

Dan: output  captured in comments : 

Tess: I looked into user gesture requirement.  We (Safari) has a user gesture restriction.  I don't think the spec mandates that.

Tess: re pickling, they had rejected this approach because native apps would have to opt in. I think the more pressing concern should be that adoption of other engines is unlikely because of the security risk.

Dan: no feedback yet - how can we progress?

Tess: at TPAC this was discussed in the editing task force - they may have regular calls. I will look into it.

Peter: we could close this with prejeduce as they're not being responsive. I'm concerned - if there is only one browser interested in this then it sounds like a bigger problem.

Lukasz: only one browser - GC - right?  Do we have any formal power to give a failing grade?

Dan: give them one more week?

Dan: let some feedback

### Ethics Update

Hadley & I worked on a PR of updates to the ethics doc: https://github.com/w3ctag/ethical-web-principles/pull/15

### f2f update

[discussion of agenda planning]

Tess: TC39 mutual topics - they are meeting the same time as us in SF - maybe we could do a video call...

Dan: I will go back through our issue list and suggest some joint topics of interest.

