## TAG F2F Cupertino
##### 04 December 2019

Present: Alice, Dan, David, Hadley, Lukasz (kind of), Peter, Tess, Yves

Regrets: Sangwhan, Kenneth

Scribe: hober

---

Agenda:
* Ethics finding
* How We Work

---

### Ethics finding

Hadley: Dan and I resolved 15 issues that came from the TAG or the community

Hadley: Some where mechanical, some were suggestions of new principles to include, e.g. open and decentralized. We had a big discussion on not just covering the browser-based web, and including data on the web.

Hadley: Hopeful that the TAG will approve the PR so we can publish the new version

Alice: It would be easier to read the diff if lines were broken at clause boundaries, not paragraph boundaries

Dan: Judy had some specific requests around the accessibility language, and we really wanted to make sure we got those right

Dan and Hadley: [describes the portions of the PR that pertain to Judy's feedback](https://github.com/w3ctag/ethical-web-principles/issues/10)

Dan: Other major changes: we modified "the web must enhance individuals' control and power" based on feedback from Andrew Betts and David Baron. We added language that we favor decentralized architectures but don't mandate them.

Dan: This also references the Indie Web community. We will build the technology for individual developers and not just large engineering teams in corporations

Dan: Added note about carbon emissions in the environment principle; Chris Adams was very vocal on this, as was Kenneth.

Dan: Web should not cause harm to societyâ€”Andrew Betts gave feedback here for how we work on specs. We mention the CEPC and have notes about open process.

Hadley: What do you all think?

Alice: "The web is for all people" has one sentence on internationalization and localization, three on accessibility, and one on low bandwidth / limited access environments.

Hadley: We should tackle this in a future version

Alice: OK

Tess: I think this looks great.

Dan: PROPOSED RESOLUTION: Accept this PR and publish a new version

Alice: How will future revisions be published? We shouldn't have to be in F2F

Dan: We need to have TAG consensus; we can either do that on the weekly call or in a F2F

Alice: Sounds good.

RESOLVED: Accept this PR and publish a new version

Peter: [pushes the button]

Yves: There are nine open issues on the document

Hadley: Some can be closed now, some are for future versions.

Yves: OK

### How We Work

Dan: Following up from our conversation last night, and Alice's question about how much of our time do we spend on reviews versus other work (findings, etc.)

Dan: We need to take concrete actions that we can record, not just kvetch about what's not working right now.

Dan: One thing we talked about was getting more systematic about weekly breakouts

Alice: I think that was a proposed solution, can we talk about the problem(s)?

Alice: I'd like to discuss how well our current working mode (100% of the time on design reviews) is working for us, and what work is being process starved by the design reviews. Is this working; if not, how do we fix it?

Dan: Design Principles is one example

Hadley: I think it may be working for us, but is it working for the web? Are we having the biggest impact we could have? Sometimes I feel like we burn energy on design reviews that would be better spent elsewhere

Yves: Findings, guides, etc.

Dan: What's most useful for the web?

Yves: For the web or for people who are writing specifications for the web? The guides we've worked on are very useful for people who are doing the work, e.g. the Promises guide.

Dan: Who are our customers?

Dan: Spec writers are our most important customers, at least in our current working mode (since the TAG reboot).

Dan: who are our other customers: General set of web technologists at large (e.g. in our Securing the Web finding)

Dan: The intention of the Securing the Web finding was to reach anybody building the web or using web technology. We could cut through the noise, the FUD.

Alice: What was the guiding principle behind the TAG doing that work?

Tess: Our charter. "W3C created the TAG to document and build consensus around principles of Web architecture and to interpret and clarify these principles when necessary. The TAG will also resolve issues involving general Web architecture brought to the TAG, and help coordinate cross-technology architecture developments inside and outside W3C."

Dan: The TAG is concerned with interfaces between web technologies.

Dan: We also tend to get involved on issues where specific TAG participants have passion, interest, and expertise. This is arguably an artifact of the fact that we're an elected body.

Tess: Another customer is the body that elected us, the AC.

David: The distribution of stuff that we look at is biased by who asked us to review. We tend to focus on the areas of W3C where Google is heavily involved, because the Blink process requires TAG review. We're not paying as much attention to other parts of the W3C.

Dan: I agree. This is one reason I've been vocal about reaching out to WG chairs to help them request reviews. I think there are a few really good examples we can use, e.g. the Immersive Web group.

Dan: I think we all need to be looking out to the other groups that we're involved with, to encourage them to bring things to us

Alice: does that mean we want to take on more work?

Dan: It means we take on a more balanced work. Balanced across the consortium.

Hadley: As a working group, in addition to the fact that the Blink process brings us more Google work than our other constituents, a lot of us-as-the-TAG are more plugged into what's coming out of Blink. I'm concerned when things come to us like TTML, it's easier to put it aside, and focus on things we're more familiar with.

Dan: Same with verifiable claims, for instance.

David: Another thing with our engagement with chairs: We moved our Blink integration earlier in their process, and maybe we should do that with WG chairs too

Dan: Yes, this is what I'm saying when I talk to chairs

Yves: That was the purpose of the talk we gave to WG chairs on this process

Dan: That call wasn't as effective as it could have been; it didn't have as much participation as I had hoped.

Hadley: Given our list of constituents, how do we feel about the design reviews for things that aren't anywhere near W3C

Hadley: specifically ,when we get a spec that's somebody's "let me have a go at web standards" -- do we say we want things to be in a W3C WG?  Do we enforce that?

Tess: There are speific groups outside w3c where we want to get design reviews, e.g., core work at WHATWG is clearly in our wheelhouse.  Maybe other groups less so.  We should think about that balance, but I don't know if we're seeing many requests from other SDOs that are only tangentially related to the web.

Hadley: I was thinking about individuals rather than SDOs.

Yves: We've had requestst from TC39, from IETF, from WHATWG.

Alice: Do we need an accetp-list?

Yves: When something is in those organizations, we know there's some buy-in from different actors and not just from one.

Alice: Theme in many reviews - friction - coming from one stakeholder with no evidence that it's been discussed with others.

Tess: e.g., our discussion at TPAC about how blink process is working.  Being able to distinguish between things with plausible multistakeholer buyin rather than from one project.

Yves:  ??? more exploratory versus ??

Dan: in our template we ask for details of multistakeholder buyin

Alice: optional

Dan: could strengthen te language, or make multistakeholder buyin a requirement

Tess: we could use it to prioritize agenda.  Could still accept all reviews but use multistakeholder as way to prioritize our work.

Yves: Could instead say "ready for standardization".

Hadley: Not sure that's implied.  In hrefTranslate we asked who else was participating.  Google and Microsoft.  But seemed confused that that was a requirement of TAG review.

Dan: Two things we're talking about.  Multistakeholder buyin - e.g., Fugu is multistakeholder given Goog, MS, Intel -- but does it have a target venue?  Is it a standards venue?  Does it have a standards venue target?

Hadley: Are we saying that Fugu is not a venue?

Dan: I don't think it's a venue.  Group convened by Google.

Dan: stronger definition of multistakeholder?

Hadley: Also we've just added to the Ethical Web Principles: "We will build new web technologies in a collaborative matter according to open processes (for example, the <a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/Process/">W3C process</a>)." A group bound by commercial agreements and NDAs does not operate in the open. That might help make decisions in the future. 

Lukasz: If we could say "ready for standardisation", does it mean we can also say "not ready for standardisation"? Is it the today's "unsatisfactory review" then?

Lukasz: Does saying "unsatisfactory review" hold any power?

Tess: No. We're an advisory group. We can say something is a bad idea, but it doesn't change what people do.

Yves: We don't have veto power.

Alice: it has influence on Blink shipping

Lukasz: So our advice can be taken or not taken.

Group: Yes.

Hadley: Ralph said that the TAG feedback is taken into account when chartering new groups and when advancing specs through the rec track.

Yves: yes, in most cases

Lukasz: We'd benefit from a better understanding of where our voice affects others' actions. A list of such places would be useful for prioritization of our work.

Dan: We're trying to drive outputs or decisions we can make from this discussion. Can you add a proposal to that output?

Hadley: I think Lukasz is saying that we can prioritize our design reviews based on where we think our reviews will be more effective. And if we combine that with Tess's suggestion for us to prioritise our work on design reviews that have multiple stakeholders and are ready for standardisation in a standards development organisation, then one of our outputs of this meeting could be to create a way to prioritise our work. 

Lukasz: for the moment no particular input (outside of: good ideas, and hope you have it drawn on the whiteboard, which I don't see ;) )

Dan: I think we're doing this. We've been talking about our set of stakeholders and how we can be more impactful with them.

Lukasz: cool ;) 

Dan: We need a way to prioritize our design reviews, work items, and time.

Lukasz: so more or less make it a process-like/formalisation/etc

5 minute break

Peter: We keep coming back to "should we be working on a next version of the Architecture of the World Wide Web (AWWW)"

Dan: No.

Peter: we usually say "yes, but some time in the future." Is the future now?

Hadley: When we have the resources to do it. I don't think we currently have a cohesive model of what the web is and isn't. We are the natural authority to do it, but it would take a substantial amount of work.

Yves: Most of the principles in AWWW are still relevant. New things need to be documented (e.g. in security).

Hadley: The old version is for the declarative web. But we now have a rich platform for deploying applications on.

Dan: AWWW doesn't include the use of the web for an application environment. Needs much more on security, etc.

David: AWWW has three sections. We'd probably keep them and add at least four more. We might make pretty substantive changes to the data formats section.

Peter: Volume 2

Dan: I'm trying to come up with strategies to free up our time so that we don't always fill all breakout time with design reviews.

Alice: Would we like to target a certain percentage of TAG time as design review time v. other time?

Tess: Another point that occurred to me on the break: I was thinking about prioritizing work -- and we talked about 2 bits of information we could use: (a) does the work have multistakeholder buyin (b) is there a venue.  Third one that ties to wanting time to work on other things (esp. design principles): part of what's great about doing design reviews is that it keeps us closer to the technology that's happening on the web.  Our design reviews should be informing our work on our design principles; the design principles should be pulled out of our reviews.  So we should be doing that -- think during reviews about what we're learning.  But secondly, when we choose how to prioritize reviews we could ask the question of whether it it will make us progress our understanding of how to build the web.  e.g., the supreme court of the US doesn't take any case; they pick cases where they can have an impact.  Can we proiritize our work about not just answering the design review with feedback, but about informing our other work.

Dan:  Yes.  Though SCOTUS metaphor is tricky.  Agree that could help us proritize.  So if we wanted to help implement prioritization, could do it with labels.  Could label has-venue.  We could have a multistakeholer label (or series of them: green/amber/red), or single-stakeholder label.  Those signals together could, through algorithm, give us prioritzation rank that helps us assemble agendas.  So when we assemble agenda for a given call, could rank in priority order.

Tess: Another source of priority could be "ho wlong has it been in the abyss" -- are we being timely?

Hadley: Playing out the prioritization model -- somebody in the community writes their spec.  By this it would be ranked very low and we might never get to it.  Would we be saying it's fine that we don't get to it and it's fin -- or would be saying we get to it eventually.

Dan: One risk in this is that we feel like we're doing a great job, but we end up starving stuff, and stuff that's single-stakeholder ends up getting in to the web.  Sometimes onething we can do effectively is push back on things that are single-stakeholder.  So if we're only engaging with things that already have multiple stackeholders, we're not being that voice (to push things to have more stakeholders).

Tess: None of this answers Alice's question -- target % of time.

Dan: In our agenda for this week, we have 31 hours of design reviews and 11 hours of non-review time. Two of the breakouts yesterday were actually working on the ethical web finding. (75%/25%)

David: In our F2Fs.

Dan: Right. In our calls, we're pretty much 100% on the design reviews. If you add up the year's F2F and telcon time, we probbaly have more F2F time.

Alice: Process/tools improvements are also non design reviews work that we do

Alice: We also had to fight to get this hour back from reviews so we could have this conversation.

Alice: One way to ensure we spend time on things other than design reviews is we could say 1 in 4 of the weekly calls has to be about something other than design reviews.

Peter: Assuming we have the other work to do

Tess: Time spent on design reviews in calls -- when we do more readouts-like bits.  We could use that time in the telecon in a structured way.  Could always ask ourselvs: what did we learn from this review tht should go in design-principles?  How is this informing our other work?

Hadley: Point about the Supreme Court is tha tthey publish opinions.  We don't do that except in our github issues -- and it doesn't make sense to write a full opinion on every design review.  You're saying we should explicitly give ourselves some time to make sure our insight is tangible and useful.

Dan: One of the reviews we did yesterday, MathML, we spent some time talking about our previous review of it. Sangwhan wrote a number of paragraphs at that time, and we reviewd those at the time and signed off. Many other reviews are more substantive like that. Could we be more systematic about recording such substantive things as TAG resolutions and aggregating links to them, link them somewhere. That way people can see TAG output.

David: I think I'd rather boil those down to a more central place, like the design principles. That kind of corpus is hard to process.

Alice: We could link out from the design principles to concrete examples.

David: Yes, but the core should be in the design principles.

Peter: When we do a review, and there's an impact on something, we should file an issue (on the design principles) so you can see what drove us to consider the change to the design principles.

Alice: How can we track discrete items of work that aren't design reviews?

Tess: We have issues in other repos like the design-principles.  We currently use only design-reviews issues to guide telecon time work, but we're traking other work items on other things, we're just not tracking them in our work time.  We should prioritize across repositories.

Peter: has anyone looked at github projects?

Alice: process improvement?  Where?

Tess: w3ctag/process or similar

Alice: and we need to feed those into our agenda process.

Peter: agenda planning script should look at all repos.  Problem is we don't have milestones.

Alice: Do people like this idea of having a non-review meeting?

Tess: Yes

Hadley: We need to have an agenda in advance so we can get our heads in the right place

Dan: Programatic agenda generation!

Alice: One script to scrape the design reviews repo, one to scrape all the other ones.

Dan: One in four meetings being non-review. I like the idea of making part of each call be for non-reviews too.

Alice: We should spend breakout time on other things too, but in calls we should note outcomes but I feel like spending too much of the review call time on that will cause our reviews to be even slower.

Dan: Maybe it'd be better to do it at the granularity of a call.

Alice: Assuming we move to the model where all the review work is in breakouts and then the plenary call is for readouts, reflections, etc. The review should happen in the breakout, not the plenary.

Dan: Sometimes in the context of that breakout, the people in that review might feel "this really needs to be discussed in plenary". In that case, we need call time.

Alice: We could file an issue in design principles in those cases.

Dan: We also need to discuss contentious issues in plenary. Sometimes you just need more eyes.

Alice: Maybe that gets some kind of "plenary" label

Dan: Flipping things around (brekaouts preceed calls, "plenary" label instead of "breakout" label)

Dan: BREAKOUT BOT!!!!

Dan: It can know who is assigned to each issue and the issue priority, and can schedule breakouts accordingly. Can be manual to start. Then we do readouts in the plenary call, which may result in additional discussion which is important.

Alice: I'm trying to avoid us chasing our tails in our rare and precious plenary call time, when we could have had the same discussion between two people in a breakout.

Alice: Dan made the point last night that sometimes even when people aren't participating in a discussion, it's important for them to be there to understand what's going on

Dan: [Concern about folks missing from this F2F]

Alice: We need to parallelize work or else we'll never get to things. Not every issue will have everyone's eyes on it. Stuff will be done suboptimally, and we have to live with that.

Tess: Sometimes people ask me at TPAC about a specific review, and they're confused because people think the feedback came from the whole TAG.  But we should also clarify messaging and expectation setting -- should be clear you're getting opinions of a few people.  And if that's not sufficient for you let us know.

Dan: I don't want to put that in our review template.

Tess: No... but it's surprising to people today that they're not getting reviews from the whole TAG.

Dan: Maybe we should be documenting that.  I don't think anybody's ever gotten a review from the whole TAG -- just making it official that the discussion is always a subset of people with others tuning out.  People do always have the option to jump in.

Yves: Don't have time to follow everything that was done in breakouts.

Dan: I don't think we should be answering it as "oh, has nothing to do with me".  This process is prducing TAG reviews.

Tess: Many of which we've never seen.  Devil can be in the details.  Should set expectations appropriately.

Peter: I agree.  Two other factors: in breakouts, we should to some extent channel other TAG members -- should take that into account.  Should ping other person.  Also, like in other WGs, we should make resolutions when we know a stakeholder is not present.  We should resolve this and give the other person a chance to check over the next few weeks.  People not involved in a breakout always have a right to bring something back.

Dan: Breakout system based on trust.  There's a fine line between (two intonation variants of) "I wasn't involved in that discussion".

Yves: ???

Peter: ???

Hadley: It's important to us to represent the TAG as a whole to the community. If someone comes to me because I'm the only person on the TAG they know.

Alice: I think that we shouldn't set an expectation that every TAG member will have an immediate understanding of every design review, but we need to be clear that people can ask us about them, and we can go ask about it and find out.

David: One of the most common things when someone complains to me about a TAG thing, it's with information we didn't have. I ask "how were we supposed to know this information that you assumed we knew"

Alice: This is the last 30min at this F2F where we can drive concrete action items here. Hadley, Yves, and me have no breakouts scheduled for tomorrow. We can spend that time drafting some of these things, if we have a list of things to work on.

Tess: That sounds great.

Dan: What do we need in the next 30min to best feed into that?

5 min break

Group: [Whiteboarding possible breakout/plenary call days and times]


Alice: So we're agreeing these actions:

* Draft a Week in the life of the TAG member
* Change our template for creating a new design review
* Update our doc on how to work with the TAG
* Creating a process repo for us
* 3 in 4 weeks we do design review breakouts and redadouts in plenary. On the fourth week, we do work in all other areas/repos in breakouts and readouts of those in plenary.  
* Change our plenary meeting time to 24 hours later

All: We'll cancel next week's meetings, so we have time to adjust our calendars. 

All: We're agreeing that our TAG breakouts will now be:

* A: for California/Europe: 5pm Monday UTC 
* B: for Asia Pacific/California: 11pm Monday UTC
* C: for Asia Pacific/Europe 8am Tuesday UTC

Weekly call on Wednesday at 9pm UTC 

## Breakout 5a

### [@property #402](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/402)

Alice: I'm satisfied with the resolution for https://github.com/w3c/css-houdini-drafts/issues/943

David, Peter, Tess:

... We think @property doesn't have any effects until computation time.

... No way to get the set of things registered via @property or registerProperty?

David: (writing comment)

Peter: This is taking a spec concept and turning it into an API.

David: Closing issue.


### [Scroll to text #392](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/392)

Tess: Issues with finding word boundaries using ICU... this is under-specified and not all implementations use ICU. 

David: Quality of mitigation depends on quality of dictionary in ICU for some languages.

Tess: They added an algorithm for "find the next word instance"...

... calls out to Intl.Segmenter from TC39

... non-normative note which doesn't seem all non-normative, e.g. normative requirements on what should be in the dictionary.

... Much of this note should be in the algorithm.

Peter: ... Media fragments...

... Where does this syntax apply? Plain text file? JSON file? CSS file? Metadata?

Tess: I think you should ask that as a comment.

Peter: I think it should apply to a limited set of file types.

David: It could apply to markup other than HTML... 

Tess: ... Anne's issue around cross-origin activation...

... Marking as pending external feedback.


### [Backdrop Filter #353](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/353)

Tess: This one is known not to have consensus. They marked it as not having consensus.

Alice: We filed https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/issues/31 on the lack of consensus/implementability aspect.

Tess: How does this apply in the case of Backdrop Filter? Looks like they are explicitly going with option #3. It's unclear to me what the severity of the user impact of the lack of interoperability is. 

... I haven't seen any bug reports on this, that I can recall offhand, complaining about interop issues. So it could be that it doesn't matter much in practice.

David: Not currently implemented in Gecko.

Tess: I'm inclined to say that we should close this issue. The remaining issues are of this meta nature. We need to create guidance on how to handle these types of issue.

... however we might propose that they should document the two options and say that implementations MUST implement one of the two.

## Breakout 5a: [Wide review request: the HTML Standard Review Draft](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/412)

rapid fire bucketing from https://github.com/whatwg/html/pulls?q=is%3Apr+merged%3A%3C2019-07-16+closed%3A%3E%3D2019-01-01+sort%3Acreated-asc

#### Ignore

#3297
#3477
#3686
#4153
#4237
#4253
#4266
#4277
#4283
#4290
#4296
#4302
#4305
#4309
#4311
#4312
#4316
#4317
#4319
#4327
#4343
#4346
#4351
#4355
#4367
#4368
#4375
#4376
#4377
#4378
#4380
#4387
#4388
#4389
#4393
#4394
#4396
#4397
#4398
#4404
#4416
#4448
#4453

#### Subresources/Navigation

#4031
#4450

#### Already reviewed

#4048
#4239
#4324
#4383
#4422

#### Form controls

#4143
#4447

#### Agent clusters

#4204
#4214
#4294

#### Security

#4269
#4330
#4331
#4332

#### Browsing context

#4284
#4350
#4366
#4379
#4402
#4430

#### Event Loop

#4437
#4440

#### Canvas

#4360
#4455

#### XML

#4384 assign dbaron

#### CSS

#4406

#### JS

#4415

#### Rolled out?

#4407

## Breakout 5b (Hadley & Dan)

### [Web of Things Architecture #355](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/355) and [Web of Things Thing Description #357](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/357)

Dan: [commented on privacy threats](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/355#issuecomment-561833488)

Discussed the JSON / JSON-LD issue.

Dan: Does the new language in 7.1 address your concern?

David: I guess so.

Discussing some of Kenneth's comments.

Hadley: We're now waiting for Kenneth to clear, then ready to close both of these issues

### [HTTP state tokens #297](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/297)

Dan: We could take this on as a joint project

Hadley: It sounds like Yves's area of expertise.

Dan: Let's bring it up during readouts.

Yves: Yes


## Autoplay Detection API

[Jer Noble  joining us from Apple to discuss]

Tess: shape of the autoplay detection API - there is a disagreement about it. Sync vs Async.

David: sites want to know whether they can detect if autoplay is enabled...

Hadley: what's the case for sync

JN: Sync is easier. IOS safari has always required user action to start... "user gesture"

David: User gesture is a [specified thing]

Tess: Well know thing...

JN: let's say it's async - you might not be in a user gesture by the time the promise resolves... also the question of timeouts... edge cases...  Sync is easy.  Async it wouldn't solve things but would allow for perfmance optimisations at the cost of developer inconvenienes. 

Peter: in general this is a problem for all sorts of things controlled by user activation...

David: user activation v2 spec was aimed to solve that .. 

JN: ...adds language that specs can import... "consumes a user gesture" 

Hadley: it sounds like in the context of the priority of constituenc ies / ethical  - user needs to come before the needs of the web developer / needs of the browser.

Tess: if the default code is difficult then ... 

Hadley: it might inconvenience a the browser but it the web developer comes first...

Tess: all separate WICG efforts - it doesn't meet in plenary. Decision at that time was to ask the TAG .. it came to us. We made a decision in [iceland]. In the intervening time the media working group was chartered.  Techincal disputes can be escalated to the TAG.  Our decision was to remand the issue to the Media WG. ff to September. At the media wg meeting they still didn't come to consensus.  They invited some TAG members to the discussion. Outputs were: update the design principles for this case (where sometimes it makes sense for something to be sync) and (2) for us to reconsider on this particular issue.

Hadley: as a result the fukuoka discussion didn't come to consensus?

[yes]

Tess: notably, there were participants from many more companies.  large content sites ... everyone from these companites /orgs agreed with the sync option.

David: [files the issue on design principles]

YL: is there a linger property... 

David: there is v1 and v2 - not two versions of the same thing. They are 2 different thibngs. v1 is an API to say "are you currently in a user activation & has there ever been a user activbation on this document?" v2 is a proposal to standardize the rules for what a user activation is - and inclueds a 300ms timer concept.  Chrome is shipping a UA v2 thing.

Hadley: if both are still active then it sounds like something we should put into design principles as something that needs to be resolved.  Having 2 competitive specs to do the same thing is an architectureal issue.

JN: It would be nice to have a spec that tells what is considered a user activation... 

Tess: suggest: our issue 439: we should do 2 things - 1) we should file a design principles issue to update the wording to caputre the nuance of this case 2) once filed we should close this issue saying 1. we are sorry this didn't cover the case and we have filed an issue and 2. we think in this case the API should be synchronous.

David: Jer convinced me more today.

Dan: it sounds good to me.

Hadley: .. do we have a sense of how we want to change the principles document...?

Tess: i don't, but (related to our previous conversation today) we need to allocate more TAG time to the principles document [nb: we have done this - DKA].

Peter: is it possible for the autoplay permission to come and go?

[discussion of behaviour of different browsers currently]

Tess: the sync question is only on the document level accessor

JN: the proposal is all sync - 

Peter: once something gives permission it doesn't go away?

JN: yes for a specific playing option (on UAs I know about)

David: on IOS safari it's possible to start ...

JN / Tess: [some user-hostile beahiours have been noted in the wild that take advantage of the document level permissions - e.g. GRPR prompts can enable autoplay - this is accidenal behaviour.]

JN: we really don't want every video element on the page that implements its own event listener... we wanted to mitigate against unintentional user hostile behavior.

Tess: some of this may be adddressed by User Activation v2 spec...

[Tess drafts a comment in the issue]

## Media Capabilities [#218]

JN: Fingerprinting mitigation strategies have been discussed ...  If a privacy-conscious UA wants to it can level the playing field and 

Hadley: it looks like this is stalled...

Tess: we still don't have a design document...

Hadley: I will update the issue

## [Partitioning HTTP Cache](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/424)

Yves: i propose to close thie issue - as our work is done here.

[consensus to close]

## Readouts from our breakout sessions

### @property  

Tess: closed

### Scroll to Text  

Tess: had some comments; still open.  Have addressed a number of the previously-raised issues.

### backdrop-filter  

Tess: closed, though disagreement within WG.  Encouraged to specify both ways due to lack of consensus in WG.

### WoT Architecture and WOT Thing Description  

Hadley: largely good to go, want to check with kenneth since he had a comment that wasn't fully resolved.  Hoping to close tomorrow.

### HTTP State Tokens 

Hadley: We wanted to propose to TAG that it should be joint wproject with TAG.

  Dan: we need to do more work on this

  Hadley: Were hoping Yves could take it forward.  Can you?

Yves: yes
  
### RtcIceTransport 

Yves: need more people.  Issues with opening things on random ports.  Needs more explanation.

  Dan: don't have sangwhan here

Yves - privacy issues, e.g., with coalescing HTTP3 connection.  Instead of openinng using multiplexing capabilitiies.  In case of multilpe tabs that want to open something, might want multiple connections for privacy issues.  Thigs like that need more exploration.
  
### RtcQuicTransport  

### Partition the HTTP cache  

Yves: closed

### HTML Standard Wide Review  

Dan: did half of it

Tess: will do more in breakout next next week

### Web Publictions review

Hadley: They've stopped work.  We closed.  Suggested opening a new issue for the new thing they're working on, pointed to likely first question about it (why so many manifests)

### hrefTranslate

Hadley: We closed.  Some changes made based on what we asked.  Still don't agree with the design of the feature, but we've done what we can.

### Autoplay detection

Tess: CLOSED!

### With Credentials

Yves: we have a proposal - Mike West thinks ok.  Might need someone to write spec changes for that.  Would be good for Anne to agree.

Dan: c'mon, we can close this!

Yves: https://github.com/whatwg/fetch/issues/517

### Autoplay detection API

[Closed in favour of 439](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/439)





