# TAG Teleconference jan 5 2022

## Plenary Session - [2022-01-05](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220105T160000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=248&p7=240)

Present: Dan, Peter, Max, Lea, Amy, Sangwhan, Yves, Rossen
Regrets: Hober

### Call times discussion

**Proposal to move to a rotaing time slot of 16:00 UTC and 07:00 UTC**

### Issue Triage for [Design Principles](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues)

Sangwhan: priortize landing open PRs...    then address things with the "write me" label. Also some stuff that may just need to be closed.

Lea: we need to be more diligent in applying labels, eg. blocked and pending external feedback

Dan: we can waste time discussing issues that are blocked, but sometimes it's stil useful to talk about them as someone might have other out of band information

### Accessibility Checklist

Rossen: I'm on the hook to review this and get it up and running... My plan is to dedicate as much time as I can this week and if things go sideways on Mondays breakout. Already quite a bit of progress

Sangwhan: I wrote most of accessibility checklist

Rossen: breakout B next week for this

### Ethical Web Prinvciples & Societal Impact Questionnaire

Dan: would like to organise a session with Amy..

Amy: I'm offline until about 24/25 Jan

Dan: arrange a planning session this Friday..

### Security & Privacy Questionnaire

Dan: I'd like to put to Tess which timeslot she'd like to use to address open issues and PRs

### Early early stage reviews...

Rossen: light-weight- reivews. We discussed in the past agreed to add this as an option.

Sanghwnan:  we have the option in the template...

Rossen: I'm refering to the pre-design step when we were working with the folks from the blink community - one stage before design review...  "I have an idea" - light weight engagement.  I don't see this in the current design review template.

Lea: I'm pretty sure we've done early design reviews....

Dan: 3rd issue template in the design review section?

Rossen: should integrate with WICG group... to make sure it syncs. 

Lea: primarily intended as "is this API useful" for "is this API a good shape"?

Rossen: just a quick review...  "this is what I'm trying to do"

Lea: if it's that casual would the Q&A section be sufficient?

Sangwhan: there is this happening in the WICG discourse

Rossen: this is different - it's implementers who are going to work on this.

Sangwhan: I think we can modify the early design template rather than create a new template... our process itself doesn't treat early design reviews differently.  Intent for setting up the separate template was to do this...

Dan: How to change our triage process?

Sangwhan: we can filter out these early reviews if they use the correct template.

Rossen: i think we should prioritize those - develop habbits - make sure they are really early design reviews... 

Sangwhan: e.g. explainer-only reviews... an early idea.  When you use the early review template it puts a label on it.

Rossen: the template asks for all the same stuff - still heavy weight.

Dan: we can mark some things as optional but I don't want to remove them as it might be the first time people have seen things like the S&P questionnaire. But we an make the template less intimidating for people who are opening reviews for the first time. Also how can we incorporate that into the agenda process so we can differentiate so we know which are early when we are putting together the agenda, so we can prioritise those. 

Sangwhan: you can use the label as an indicator in the script

Dan: I will take a look at that

Rossen: some of the issues with the early review tag are not early

Dan: if you see ones that aren't early you can remove the early label

Sangwhan: different implementors have different standards for early


### Discussion: what do we plan to priorise this month and how do we want to organise our time?

