# TAG teleconference Minutes - week of 23 May 2022

## Agenda

### Breakout A (Europe / US) - [2022-05-23](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220523T160000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* [File Handling](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/371) - @hober, @cynthia, @torgo, @hadleybeeman
* [Shared Element Transitions - Early Review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/631) - @cynthia, @LeaVerou, @plinss
* [`<search>` HTML element](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/714) - @LeaVerou, @plinss
* [Early design review: Focusgroup](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/732) - @LeaVerou, @plinss
* [Shared Element Transitions - Early Review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/631) - @cynthia, @LeaVerou, @plinss
* [HTMLMediaElement controlsList](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/643) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @atanassov
* [HTMLInputElement showPicker()](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/688) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @atanassov
* [Viewport Segments Property](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/689) - @torgo, @plinss, @atanassov
* [Dark mode support for web apps](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/696) - @hober, @cynthia, @LeaVerou, @torgo
* [`prefers-reduced-data` CSS Media Query](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/705) - @LeaVerou, @torgo, @atanassov
* [[css-values-4] The Large, Small, and Dynamic Viewport Sizes](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/706) - @torgo, @atanassov
* [FedCM (was WebID)](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/718) - @hober, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman, @atanassov

### Breakout B (US / APAC) - [2022-05-24](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220524T000000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* [Font Table Access API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/400) - @hober, @plinss, @atanassov
* [Review the HTML spec's treatment of focus](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/468) - @hober, @atanassov
* [review HTML event loop and how things fit into it](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/489) - @hober, @atanassov
* [WebGPU and WGSL](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/626) - @hober, @cynthia, @maxpassion
* [InteractionID in Event Timing](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/670) - @plinss, @atanassov
* [AbortSignal.timeout()](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/711) - @hober, @cynthia, @plinss
* [Review Request for CSS Subgrid](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/712) - @plinss, @atanassov

### Breakout C (APAC / Europe) - [2022-05-24](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220524T080000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* Discussion on Privacy Principles TAG feedback
* [MiniApp Lifecycle](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/523) - @cynthia, @torgo, @maxpassion
* [Cookies Having Independent Partitioned State (CHIPS)](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/654) - @hober, @torgo, @atanassov - any feedback we can give to unstick this?
* [State extension for JS Self-Profiling API.](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/682) - @cynthia, @torgo, @maxpassion
* [Review request for TURTLEDOVE](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/723) - @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman
* [Review Request for Attribution Reporting API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/724) - @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman
* [Early design review for the Topics API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/726) - @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman

### Plenary Session - [2022-05-25](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220525T150000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* Breakout Rollup
* [Issue Triage](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Progress%3A+untriaged%22)

## Minutes

### Breakout A (Europe / US) - [2022-05-23](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220523T160000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

Present: Dan, Amy, Peter, Rossen
Regrets: Yves, Lea, Hadley

#### [File Handling](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/371) - @hober, @cynthia, @torgo, @hadleybeeman

#### [Shared Element Transitions - Early Review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/631) - @cynthia, @LeaVerou, @plinss

#### [`<search>` HTML element](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/714) - @LeaVerou, @plinss

#### [Early design review: Focusgroup](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/732) - @LeaVerou, @plinss

#### [Shared Element Transitions - Early Review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/631) - @cynthia, @LeaVerou, @plinss

#### [HTMLMediaElement controlsList](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/643) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @atanassov

#### [HTMLInputElement showPicker()](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/688) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @atanassov

#### [Viewport Segments Property](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/689) - @torgo, @plinss, @atanassov

Dan: we left feedback on 21st Feb and haven't progressed. As far as I understand it isn't very controversial, it is being used. 

Peter: last feedback I left was about API shape. No response.

Dan: should we ping some of the other people on here? [does so](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/689#issuecomment-1134872088)

Rossen: I pinged them Feb 28th

#### [Dark mode support for web apps](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/696) - @hober, @cynthia, @LeaVerou, @torgo

Peter: I think we can close this. They took our feedback on board. Lea had some additional non-blocking

Dan: terrific! [closing comment](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/696#issuecomment-1134877534)

**closed**

#### [`prefers-reduced-data` CSS Media Query](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/705) - @LeaVerou, @torgo, @atanassov

Dan: they created an explainer. Use cases look reasonable.

Dan: _asks for security & privacy review_

Rossen: the answer is handwavey re: behaviour when the setting is changed between on and off. I wouldn't consider this as a fringe scenario. On mobile data you can be going between different places on wifi and off wifi as you're moving. Which will cause the experience to go between on and off. Response is quesitonable. Let's say I'm on an okay connection and I'm downloading a file that is really large. Then I go to roaming, in which case I need to save money and badwidth, and prefers-reduced-data kicks in. He's saying when it goes on it will not cancel the request, still downloads the huge file. Either he didn't understand implementation and how it works, or I'm questioning the design.I don't see this addressed anywhere in the explainer. Could be a development for the future. I'm sympathetic to use cases and handling this with a media feature makes sense to me. I'd caution as a strong design concern is this reliability and expectation of this and how much will developers try to fight it off vs use it.

Peter: he's describing the behaviour as running a network request to completion once it starts. I hear your concern but I'm not sure that doing it the other way would be much better. Say you've got a large file and a medium file and you're half way through the large file and you switch to low bandwidth, so you abort the large file and download the medium file.. then go back and it goes back to the large one and starts over.. if you flip back and forth and cancel requests, you're going to double your data. This is a rational behaviour.

Rossen: this is my concern. I understand. I'm not seeing any kind of mechanism around is this going to be reactive. What is the frequency of this. How reactive is this? My expectation is that it's going to be, if it matches any other media query, as soon as the system state changes that is going to be affected to the media query evaluation. 

Peter: Right

Rossen: my point is sthat for network connections, especially on mobile, the frequency of change can be much greater than any of the other media features today. Prefers-reduced-motion, prefers-dark-mode - fairly infrequent user initiated system states. This one is not. So because it is not you're at th emercy of the frequnecy that you're moving with. Because this is much different than the other media features in terms of that frequency I want to see something that suggests that they were thinking about this and that they could suggest .. either accept it and say it could be a problem and it's low risk to high benefit. Or they can say yeah we will throttle it somehow and maybe once you're in one load session we'll run to some level of completion an dthen switch. Something along those lines. I don't see anything to suggest they're thinking about this.

Peter: I heard your original concern being that you wanted it to abort high bandwidth connections if you drop to low bandwidth mode. You just want them to address it?

Rossen: Yeah. My follow up would be what does tha tmean from user experience. Am I going to end u pwith mixed content or not?

Peter: I Think that's a bigger concern that you're going to end up with a page with half high bandwidth and half low bandwidth content

Rossen: UX is going to be questionable a lot of times. Responding to system state and affecting presentation through it gives me pause a lot more than other media features

Peter: are you suggesting that it may be better for the user if when the page load starts it picks a mode and sticks with it at least for a while

Rossen: basically yes. Reviews that .. what are they optimising for? For reducing cost to the user? Or for presentation? I don't think there's a middle ground, because that would be mixed content. [will leave a comment]. I don't want to over-design it. Overall approach is fine. I'll provide this feedback to CSS WG as well. I can close satisfied with concerns?

Dan: leave the comment pending external feedback

Rossen: worst part is when it comes to fonts. Affects a LOT of things.

#### [[css-values-4] The Large, Small, and Dynamic Viewport Sizes](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/706) - @torgo, @atanassov



#### [FedCM (was WebID)](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/718) - @hober, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman, @atanassov



### Breakout B (US / APAC) - [2022-05-24](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220524T000000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

Present: Peter, Max
Regrets:

#### [Font Table Access API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/400) - @hober, @plinss, @atanassov

#### [Review the HTML spec's treatment of focus](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/468) - @hober, @atanassov

#### [review HTML event loop and how things fit into it](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/489) - @hober, @atanassov

#### [WebGPU and WGSL](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/626) - @hober, @cynthia, @maxpassion

#### [InteractionID in Event Timing](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/670) - @plinss, @atanassov

#### [AbortSignal.timeout()](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/711) - @hober, @cynthia, @plinss

#### [Review Request for CSS Subgrid](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/712) - @plinss, @atanassov

### Breakout C (APAC / Europe) - [2022-05-24](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220524T080000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

Present: Amy, Max, Dan, Sangwhan, Hadley
Regrets:

#### Discussion on Privacy Principles TAG feedback

Dan: can we agree feedback for the Privacy TF (tomorrow after Plenary) that is concrete? One of those things is go back and reformulate according to the TAG style guide. With very actionable things at the beginning. The second thing was having a real edit pass through to rephrase using simpler language to make it more accessible, and for people not familiar with the privacy terms of art. Any other points of feedback?

Sangwhan: Some of it reads very idealistic.. in an ideal world with no JS and no ads... not sure some are actionable.

Amy: some of it's by design - idealistic because it's high level principles - just because it's not implementable now doesn't mean we can't aspire to it. Mix of both - let's solve the problems we have right now with tech we have right now and let's build towards a beter feature.

Sangwhan: definitely a middle ground.  

Amy: I assigned myself the TAG styleguide issue so I will work on that.

Dan: we can make it less scary. It needs to be grounded but also aspirational. We need to be challenging people who are building new web tech to go beyond thinking about.. to get out of the mindset that privacy is finished and you can't have it. But it's inevitable that people on all sides of the issue will be unhappy.

#### [MiniApp Lifecycle](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/523) - @cynthia, @torgo, @maxpassion

Dan: comment in April to Sangwhan's feedback. 

Max: from previous discussions sangwhan wants to try to look at the detail of the implementation.. any progress?

Sangwhan: not yet. If my interpretation is correct I disagree with this being a safety mechanism. Does this group have regular calls?

Max: yes

Sangwhan: I don't understand, the mini app platform - the app store - gets to decide if a certain publisher has claims over a certain origin. They claim this is a business policy outside the scope of the standard. I don't think it's a safe mechanism

Dan: i thought we determined that the mini apps were being served from the actual origin

Sangwhan: that's what I was told but there's conflicting message here.. let me get to the bottom of this.

Dan: you could imagine a straightforward approach to this. It's about server configuration and DNS configuration. You could have a centralised store that is serving these mini apps but have a CNAME assigned from starbucks or whatever so that it's actually served from the domain of the app. At any rate I thought that's what we were told earlier in the discussion

Sangwhan: that's what I was told but when I read the spec there seems to be packaging and origin involved and that's the part I don't understand. Who gets to decide whether this app is worthy of this origin because there's no origin associated with the app package once it goes into the app store. Comment suggests the app store signs off on that. Say Dan submits an app claiming this is from torgo.com.. this thing exchanges prevents you from signing off... certificate validation changes..

Dan: there's no way to see the URL or certificate validity or anything like that but the root question remains is it using the web security mechanisms even so?



#### [Cookies Having Independent Partitioned State (CHIPS)](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/654) - @hober, @torgo, @atanassov - any feedback we can give to unstick this?

Dan: we haven't had any movement since Aug last year. It's been blocked by FPS. But I understood there was [a call in the Privacy CG](https://github.com/privacycg/meetings/blob/main/2022/telcons/04-28-minutes.md#cross-site-cookies-standardization) to unlink this proposal from FPS. [leaves comment]()

Amy: looks like one of the things they've brought up in the thread is that some browsers already have some implementation of cookie partitioning. Worth digging into to make sure they have looked at the prior art. I think this is in the explainer, just need to re-read.

Dan: maybe we can progress this at plenary.

#### [State extension for JS Self-Profiling API.](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/682) - @cynthia, @torgo, @maxpassion

Sangwhan: I think this is pending because it's paused at the moment. We can probably close this. [will comment]

**closed**

#### [Review request for TURTLEDOVE](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/723) - @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman

Dan: we have a [comment](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/723#issuecomment-1119992953) from the requester. Saying there's a tradeoff between network based computation and clientside computation. Doing it on the clientside means yu're having better speed and reduced latency and reduced network usage. That kind of addresses the question I had about using the network more. So where do we go now? What's the implementation plan? What do they mean by experiment?

Sangwhan: with FLoC they implemented it as a chrome extension and pushed it out to some people and a small subset of the google ad network used that extension to serve ads as a prototype. I think tha'ts what they'll do with this as well. The final implementation itself is probably inside the browser.

Dan: how thorough a review should we do at this point, vs waiting to hear feedback from their trial?

Sangwhan: it's sensitive enough.. there are several competing ones

Amy: there are other competing proposals that are similar but different. Would be weird if we reviewed one but not the others

Hadley: why have we got so many competing proposals without collaboration?

Amy: I understand incubating lots of things if you have enough people to throw at the problem, but bringing one to TAG review at this stage is premature.

Sangwhan: is there grou pconsensus that this is the best proposal, or is this here bcause of the blink process? Which are obsolete? What are the relations? We could push back and only review what the group has agreed on. Not sure if this is one of the final proposals

Amy: We don't want to discourage early review in general but it's weird to review one when there's a whole load of proposals in the space

Sangwhan: they want to do an [origin trial](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/0VmMSsDWsFg) and implement it inside Chrome, not an extension.

Dan: what is the path to consensus?

Sangwhan: maybe getting data and deciding based on that

Dan: _proposed comment_

```
Hi Paul - You've mentioned "PARAKEET" ... also Dovekey and some others. Some of these feel like competing approaches. It feels premature for TAG to offer a review when there are multiple competing proposals which are all seen as experiments.  Has the group decided - is there group consensus to use this as a winning proposal?  It feels like group consensus should come first. What does the path to consensus look like?  Is it running multiple proposals in the field and getting data and then bringing this data back into the process?
```

#### [Review Request for Attribution Reporting API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/724) - @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman

#### [Early design review for the Topics API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/726) - @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman




### Plenary Session - [2022-05-25](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220525T150000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

Present: Dan, Peter, Amy, Max, Rossen, Sangwhan
Regrets: Hadley

#### Breakout Rollup

##### Breakout A

Dan: postponed a number of things that involved Lea. Also did not cover File Handling 371 which got reoopend because there's an updated spec.

[discussion of doing design reviews instead of design principles week after next]

Dan: pinged viewports segments property..

Peter: got a response..

Dan: closed dark mode for web apps. Talked about prefers reduced data. Rossen was going to comment. No response to my comment.

Peter: can we close showPicker? We left feedback that we weren't happy and got a reply.

Dan: close unsatisfied?

Rossen: we agreed on that. Will **close**. 

##### Breakout B

Peter: only Max and I joined, most issues were for someone else.

Dan: WebGPU and WebGSL?

Sangwhan: I wrote a closing comment with some questions. The chair took it back to the group and raised an issue on their end. We can close it. 

**closed**

##### Breakout C

Dan: we talked about privacy principles TAG feedback. Sangwhan was going to leave feedback on issues. We can talk through feedback with privacy principles folks.

Sangwhan: right now is probably a good time to bring it up with the rest of the group. We don't have disagreement I think.

Dan: yes, we'll channel your feedback and see how far we get.

Dan: we talked about mini app life cycle.. Sangwhan is going to progress that?

Sangwhan: I will do a deep dive on what things are actually doing

Dan: we talked about the fact that in the privacy CG call Kaustubha mentioned they were going to try to decouple CHIPS from FPS, so I left a comment, and we got comments back. I think there's enough clarification, but in the CHIPS explainer they talk about first parties and I think it needs clarification where they have in mind first party as defined by FPS or or the more regular definition.

Dan: closed JS self profiling. Also talked about TURTLEDOVE and I asked a question about related proposals. Attribution reporting and Topics we didn't get to.

#### [Review Request for Attribution Reporting API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/724) - @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman



#### [Early design review for the Topics API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/726) - @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman

Dan: this does require TAG time.. there are some more recent comments from the requester.

#### [Font Table Access API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/400) - @hober, @plinss, @atanassov

Rossen: if I remember... our main feedback has been you wouldn't want to expose this level of access direct, and instead prefer to see work happening in the form of font ?? being exposed. Is that right?

Peter: we closed this back in May last year and they came back in Feb and asked to reopen because they addressed a lot of our issues. We need to go back and take a look at the changes.

Rossen: fair. Will need some work. High level question is did we leave a comment about font features and exposing that functionality? Which is already exposed in CSS. or is that not enough?

Peter: I don't recall specifics about font features

Rossen: want to figure out the graunalrity of access and why they need font table access in particular, let alone exposing them. Need to look more.

Dan: agenda for +2 weeks.

#### [InteractionID in Event Timing](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/670) - @plinss, @atanassov

Dan: the last time this was touched was Sept 2021.. it's been bumped. Somebody needs to look at this.

Rossen: still relevant?

Peter: it was an early review when it came it. Looks like it's been merged into their event timing spec a month after they opened it

Dan: it's in WebPerf [leaves comment]

#### [Review Request for CSS Subgrid](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/712) - @plinss, @atanassov

Rossen: curious feedback on this, it's had a lot of work from CSS WG.

Dan: *self assigns*

#### Discussion on a possible finding on targetted advertising

Peter: [raises issue of CNAMEs as a workaround for tracking]

Amy: discuss at f2f?

Rossen: seems like a good topic

Sangwhan: [...an arms race...]

Peter: lots of studies about how this doesn't even work... fascism... subverting democracy... racism...  Needs to be fact based, evidence based...

Amy: +1

#### [Issue Triage](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Progress%3A+untriaged%22)
